# 57

[is](../is/story_57.md)
[audio](../audio/story_57.mp3)

A\)

Bill hates being stuck in traffic, especially when commuting to and from
work.

He thinks that one way to reduce traffic is to share a car with someone
else, since that would mean fewer cars on the road.

Carpooling first started a few decades ago but many people resisted it
mostly because they liked their privacy while driving.

Some people might also have been concerned about how safe it would be if
they traveled in cars driven by strangers.

In some cities, there are special carpooling lanes on the highway. Only
cars with two ,three or more people can drive in those lanes.

Carpooling can help you get to work faster, however it does require
people to change some of their habits.

Over the past few years carpooling has grown, because the traffic has
just kept on getting worse.

Carpooling can save commuters time and money, but perhaps even more
important, it is good for the environment.

B\)

I used to hate being stuck in traffic, especially when commuting to and
from work.

I thought that one way to reduce traffic was to share a car with someone
else, since that would mean fewer cars on the road.

Carpooling had first started a few decades previously but many people
had resisted it mostly because they liked their privacy while driving.

I was also bit concerned about how safe it would be if I traveled in
cars driven by strangers.

In some cities, there were already special carpooling lanes on the
highway. Only cars with two, three or more people could drive in those
lanes.

I like this trend. Carpooling helps me get to work faster, but it did
require me to change some habits.

Over the past few years carpooling has grown, because the traffic has
just kept on getting worse.

Carpooling has saved commuters, like me, time and money, but perhaps
even more important, it has been good for the environment.

Questions

A\)

1\. Bill hates being stuck in traffic, especially when commuting to and
from work. When does Bill especially hate traffic. He especially hates
traffic when commuting to and from work.

2\. He thinks that one way to reduce traffic is to share a car with
someone else. What is one way Bill thinks will reduce traffic? He thinks
that one way to reduce traffic is to share a car with someone else.

3\. Sharing a car with someone else would mean fewer cars on the road.
Would sharing a car with someone else mean more or fewer cars on the
road? Sharing a car with someone else would mean fewer cars on the road.

4\. Carpooling had first started a few decades previously. Did
carpooling start last year? No, carpooling had first started a few
decades previously.

B\)

1\. I was also bit concerned about how safe it would be if I traveled in
cars driven by strangers. How did I feel about traveling in cars driven
by strangers. I was a bit concerned about traveling in cars driven by
strangers.

2\. In some cities, there were already special carpooling lanes on the
highway. What did some cities already have? Some cities already had
special carpooling lanes on the highway.

3\. Only cars with two, three or more people could drive in those lanes.
How many people must cars that drive in those lanes have? Cars that
drive in those lanes must have two, three or more people.

4\. Over the past few years carpooling has grown, because the traffic
has just kept on getting worse. Why has carpooling grown over the past
few years? Itâ€™s grown because the traffic has just kept on getting
worse.
