# 59

[prev](../en/story_58.md)
[is](../is/story_59.md)
[audio](../audio/story_59.mp3)
[next](../en/story_60.md)

A\)

Mary used to only read paper books. For most of her life the idea of an
electronic book didn’t even exist. All reading materials used to be
printed on paper.

However, now there are other ways to read. In recent years, more and
more people have started to read books on mobile devices.

People can read on their phones, their electronic tablets, or on
dedicated e-book readers like Kindle, if they want to.

Mary prefers the convenience of reading on a mobile device, because she
always has her reading material with her.

She finds e-books are especially handy when she is traveling, since
carrying books in her luggage can be inconvenient.

She is also able to order any book she wants, at a moment’s notice, via
the Internet.

Her husband George, however, prefers to hold a traditional paper book in
his hands. He simply finds it a more comfortable and agreeable reading
experience.

George also likes spending time in bookstores and libraries, just to see
that kinds of books are available.

George tends to buy books, but Mary just takes a note of the names of
interesting books, so that she can order the ebook version online and
read it on her portable device.

B\)

For many years, I only read paper books. For most of my life the idea of
an electronic book didn’t even exist. All reading materials was printed
on paper.

However, a few years ago, I discovered new ways to read. I noticed that
more and more people were starting to read books on mobile devices.

I saw people reading on their phones, their electronic tablets, or on
dedicated ebook readers like Kindle.

I must say that I now prefer the convenience of reading on a mobile
device, because I always have my reading material with me.

I have found that e-books are especially handy when traveling, since
carrying books in my luggage can be inconvenient.

What is more, I can order any book I want, at a moment’s notice, via the
Internet.

My husband George, however, prefers traditional paper books. He says
that he finds them a more comfortable and agreeable reading experience.
He is just old fashioned in my view.

George spends too much time in bookstores and libraries, just to see
that kinds of books are available.

He might buy a book in the store after browsing. However, I prefer to
just write down the names of interesting books. Then I can order the
ebook version online and read it on my portable device. Much better!

Questions

A\)

1\. For most of her life the idea of an electronic book didn’t even
exist. What idea didn’t even exist for most of her life? The idea of an
electronic book didn’t even exist for most of her life.

2\. In recent years, more and more people have started to read books on
mobile devices. When have people started to read books on mobile
devices? People have started to read books on mobile devices in recent
years.

3\. She finds ebooks are especially handy when she is traveling. When
does Mary find ebooks especially handy? She finds ebooks are especially
handy when she is traveling.

4\. She is also able to order any book she wants, at a moment’s notice,
via the Internet. What is she able to order at a moment’s notice? Mary
is able to order any book she wants at a moment’s notice.

B\)

1\. My husband George, however, prefers traditional paper books. Does
her husband George prefer ebooks or traditional paper books? He prefers
traditional paper books.

2\. George spends too much time in bookstores and libraries, just to see
what kinds of books are available. How much time does George spend in
bookstores and libraries? He spends too much time in bookstores and
libraries.

3\. He might buy a book in the store after browsing. When might George
buy a book? He might buy a book in the store after browsing.

4\. However, I prefer to just write down the names of interesting books.
What do I prefer to do in bookstores and libraries? I prefer to just
write down the names of interesting books.
