# 58

[is](../is/story_58.md)
[audio](../audio/story_58.mp3)

A\)

Sam and Betty enjoy going out for dinner with friends.

They enjoy having a glass or two of wine with their meal when they eat
out.

For that reason, it is important for them to think about how they are
going to get home after dinner.

They usually drive their car to the restaurant, or to their friends’
place, because it is too expensive to take a taxi.

They usually decide ahead of time who is going to drive home, since the
person who drives home can’t have had any wine.

Sometimes they know that it will be difficult to refuse to drink with
the other guests, for example if friends are celebrating an event like a
birthday.

In those cases, they have to make other arrangements. One solution is to
go together with other friends who live near by, one of whom will have
to agree not to drink.

It is always useful to have friends who simply do not drink at all. Such
people are always in demand as designated drivers.

The best situation of all is when the dinner party is within walking
distance. Unfortunately, that is not often the case in large cities.

B\)

We used to enjoy going out for dinner with friends when we lived in the
big city.

We enjoyed having a glass or two of wine with our meal when we ate out.

For that reason, we had to think about how we were going to get home
after dinner.

We usually drove our car to the restaurant, or to our friends’ place,
because it was too expensive to take a taxi.

We always decided ahead of time who was going to drive home, since the
person who drove home couldn’t have any wine.

Sometimes we knew that it would be difficult to refuse to drink with the
other guests, for example if friends were celebrating an event like a
birthday.

In those cases, we had to make other arrangements. One solution was to
go together with other friends who lived near by, one of whom would have
to agree not to drink.

I found it useful to have friends who didn’t drink at all. Such people
were always in demand as designated drivers.

The best situation of all was when the dinner party was within walking
distance. Unfortunately, that was not often the case in large cities. So
we moved to a small town and spend more time with our neighbours.

Questions

A\)

1\. Sam and Betty enjoy having a glass or two of wine with their meal
when they eat out. How many glasses of wine do they enjoy with their
meal when they eat out? They enjoy having a glass or two of wine with
their meal when they eat out.

2\. For that reason, it is important for them to think about how they
are going to get home after dinner. What it is it important for Sam and
Betty to think about? It’s important for them to think about how they
are going to get home after dinner.

3\. They usually drive their car to the restaurant, or to their friends’
place, because it is too expensive to take a taxi. Why don’t they take a
taxi? Because it’s too expensive to take a taxi.

4\. They usually decide ahead of time who is going to drive home. What
do they decide ahead of time? They usually decide ahead of time who is
going to drive home.

B\)

1\. Sometimes we knew that it would be difficult to refuse to drink with
the other guests. Did we think it would be easy or difficult to refuse
to drink with the other guests? We knew that it would be difficult to
refuse to drink with the other guests.

2\. In those cases, we had to make other arrangements. What did we have
to do in those cases? We had to make other arrangements in those cases.

3\. I found it useful to have friends who didn’t drink at all. What
kinds of friends did I find it useful to have? I found it useful to have
friends who didn’t drink at all.

4\. Such people were always in demand as designated drivers. What were
such people always in demand as? Such people were always in demand as
designated drivers.
