# 60

[prev](../en/story_59.md)
[is](../is/story_60.md)
[audio](../audio/story_60.mp3)
[next](../en/story_01.md)

A\)

I think it might rain today, because there are dark clouds in the sky

Even if it doesn’t start raining, I’d better take my umbrella with me,
since I got soaked yesterday.

Sometimes I decide not to take an umbrella. Sometimes I just forget to
take one.

I often hesitate to take an umbrella with me, when I should. This is
because I know I often leave my umbrella behind somewhere when I do take
one with me.

In any case, it seems to me that whenever I don’t take my umbrella, it
rains and I end up getting wet.

Yesterday, for example, I thought it wouldn’t rain, even though the
forecast said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.

I left the house without an umbrella, hoping for the best. But what do
you know, it rained and I got drenched.

I am just going to have to be more careful. I need to be more careful
about taking an umbrella, and more careful about remembering to bring it
back home.

Life is full of difficult decisions.

B\)

Anne thought it would rain last Monday, because there were dark clouds
in the sky

Even if it didn’t start raining, she thought she’d better take her
umbrella with her, since she had gotten soaked the previous day.

It was true that she often decided not to take an umbrella, or simply
just forgot to take one.

Furthermore, she often hesitated to take an umbrella with her, when she
should have taken one. This was because she knew that she would often
leave her umbrella behind somewhere, when she did take one with her.

In any case, it seemed to Anne that whenever she didn’t take her
umbrella, it would rain and she would end up getting wet.

The other day, for example, she had thought it wouldn’t rain, even
though the forecast had said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.

She had left the house without an umbrella, hoping for the best. But
what do you know, it had rained and she had gotten drenched.

She thought to herself that she was just going to have to be more
careful. She was going to have to be more careful about taking an
umbrella, and more careful about remembering to bring it back home.

Life is full of difficult decisions.

Questions

A\)

1\. I think it might rain today, because there are dark clouds in the
sky. Why do I think it might rain? You think it might rain because there
are dark clouds in the sky.

2\. I’d better take my umbrella with me, since I got soaked yesterday.
Why had I better take my umbrella? You should take your umbrella because
you got soaked yesterday.

3\. I often hesitate to take an umbrella with me, when I should. Am I
always sure to take an umbrella with me? No, sometimes you hesitate to
bring an umbrella with you.

4\. This is because I know I often leave my umbrella behind somewhere
when I do take one with me. What do I often do with my umbrella? You
often leave my umbrella behind somewhere when you do take one with you.

B\)

1\. In any case, it seemed to Anne that whenever she didn’t take her
umbrella, it would rain and she would end up getting wet. What would
happen to Anne when it would rain? it would rain and she would end up
getting wet.

2\. The other day, for example, she had thought it wouldn’t rain, even
though the forecast had said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.
What percent chance of rain had the forecast said there was? The
forecast had said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.

3\. She thought to herself that she was just going to have to be more
careful. What was Anne going to have to be? She was going to have to be
more careful.

4\. She was going to have to be more careful about taking an umbrella.
What was Anne going to have to be more careful about? She was going to
have to be more careful about taking an umbrella.