# 55

[prev](../en/story_54.md)
[is](../is/story_55.md)
[audio](../audio/story_55.mp3)
[next](../en/story_56.md)

A\)

Sally and George would like to buy a new home because their two children
are growing older.

Unfortunately, it has become difficult to buy a new home because the
cost of housing has risen faster than people’s incomes.

In order to be able to buy a new home, they have been saving money for
years.

If they want to buy a single family house, they would have to live far
from the city. This would mean a long commute to their jobs for both of
them.

They looked at apartments but these were either too small or in
neighbourhoods they didn’t like.

They realize that even though they both work hard and don’t spend money
unwisely, they still can’t afford the home that they want.

They thought, at one point, of renting a home, but really felt they
wanted to own their own home.

Finally they decided to move to a smaller town. They felt they could
live a simpler life there and enjoy a better family life.

B\)

We had wanted to buy a new home because our two children had grown
older.

Unfortunately, it had become difficult to buy a new home because the
cost of housing had risen faster than our incomes.

In order to be able to buy a new home, we had been saving money for
years.

If we had wanted to buy a single family house, we would have had to live
far from the city. This would have meant a long commute to our jobs for
both of us.

We had looked at apartments but these were either too small or in
neighbourhoods we didn’t like.

We realized that even though we both worked hard and didn’t spend money
unwisely, we still couldn’t afford the home that we wanted.

We had thought, at one point, of renting a home, but really felt we
preferred to own our own home.

Finally we decided to move to a smaller town. We felt we could live a
simpler life there and enjoy a better family life.

Questions

A\)

1\. Sally and George want to buy a new home because their two children
are getting older. Why do Sally and George want to buy a new home? They
want to buy a new home because their children are getting older.

2\. They have been saving money for many years. How long have Sally and
George been saving money? They have been saving money for many years.

3\. If they want to buy a single family house, they would have to live
far from the city. What would happen if they were to buy a single family
house? They would have to live far from the city.

4\. They looked at apartments but these were either too small or in
neighbourhoods they didn’t like. Why don’t they like the apartments they
looked at? They don’t like the apartments they looked at because they
were either too small or in neighbourhoods they didn’t like

B\)

1\. We had wanted to buy a new home because our two children had grown
older. What had we wanted to do? You had wanted to buy a new home
because your two children had grown older.

2\. We had thought, at one point, of renting a home. What had we thought
about at one point? You had thought, at one point, about renting a home.

3\. We really felt we preferred to own our own home. What did we feel we
preferred to own? You felt you preferred to own your own home.

4\. Finally we decided to move to a smaller town. What did we finally
decide? You finally decided to move to a smaller town.
