*1*

A\)

Mike gets up at 6:00am every morning.

He makes breakfast and drinks a coffee.

He drives to work in his car.

His work starts at 7:30am.

Mike is a cook at a restaurant.

He makes food for hungry customers.

The customers are from many countries.

They speak many different languages.

Mike can meet many friendly people.

Mike is happy when he talks to the customers.

B\)

I get up at six am every morning.

I make breakfast and drink a coffee.

I drive to work in my car.

My work starts at seven thirty am.

I am a cook at a restaurant.

I make food for hungry customers.

The customers are from many different countries.

They speak many different languages.

I can meet many friendly people.

I am happy when I talk to the customers.

**Questions:**

1\) Mike wakes up at six am every morning. Does Mike wake up early?
 Yes, Mike wakes up at 6:00am every morning.

2\) Mike drinks a coffee.  Does Mike drink a tea?  No, Mike does not
drink a tea, he drinks a coffee.

3\) Mike drives his car to work.  Does Mike drive his car to work?  Yes,
Mike drives his car to work.

4\) Mike’s work starts at seven thirty am.  Does Mike’s work start at
seven am?  No, Mike’s work does not start at seven am.  It starts at
seven thirty am.

5\) Mike is a cook at a restaurant.  Is Mike a cook?  Yes, Mike is a
cook at a restaurant.

6\) The customers are from many different countries.  Are the customers
from one country?  No, the customers are not from one country.  They are
from many different countries.

7\) The customers are friendly.  Are the customers friendly?  Yes, the
customers are friendly.

8\) Mike feels happy when he talks to the customers.  Does Mike feel
happy when he talks to the customers?  Yes, Mike feels happy when he
talks to the customers.

*2*

A\)

Dustin is excited for the winter holiday.

He has some time off in the winter.

He doesn’t have to work for two weeks.

He wants to go on vacation.

But, he doesn’t know where to go.

He wants to go to France.

But France is expensive.

The airplane tickets cost a lot.

And Dustin doesn’t speak French.

He decides to study, to save money, and to stay home.

B\)

I am excited for the winter holiday.

I have some time off in the winter.

I don’t have to work for two weeks.

I want to go on vacation.

But, I don’t know where to go.

I want to go to France.

But France is expensive.

The airplane tickets cost a lot.

And I don’t speak French.

I decide to study, to save money, and to stay home.

**Questions**:

1\) Dustin is excited for the winter holidays.  Is Dustin excited? Yes,
Dustin is excited for the winter holidays.

2\) Dustin has time off in the winter. Does Dustin have free time in the
winter?  Yes, Dustin has time off in the winter.

3\) Dustin wants to go on vacation.  Does Dustin want to stay home?  No,
Dustin does not want to stay home.  He wants to go on vacation.

4\) Dustin doesn’t know where to go.  Does Dustin know where to go?  No,
Dustin doesn’t know where to go.

5\) Dustin wants to go to France for his vacation.  Does Dustin want to
go to France?  Yes, Dustin wants to go to France for his vacation.

6\) France is expensive.  Is France cheap?  No, France is not cheap.
 France is expensive.

7\) Dustin does not speak French.  Does Dustin speak French?  No, Dustin
does not speak French.

8\) Dustin decides to study French, save money, or stay home for the
vacation.  Does Dustin decide to study French?  Yes, he decides to study
French, to save money, and to stay home for the vacation.

*3*

A\)

Karen is bored at work and at home.

She does the same thing every day.

She wants a new hobby.

First, she tries to cook.

But her food does not taste good.

Then, she tries to swim.

But she is afraid of water.

Karen walks home and sees a pet store.

In the pet store, she sees a cat!

Karen buys the cat, and is now very happy.

B\)

I am bored at work and at home.

I do the same thing every day.

I want a new hobby.

First, I try to cook.

But my food does not taste good.

Then, I try to swim.

But I am afraid of water.

I walk home and see a pet store.

In the pet store, I see a cat!

I buy the cat, and am now very happy.

**Questions**:

1\) Karen is bored at work, and at home.  Is Karen happy at work?  No,
Karen is not happy at work.  She is bored at work, and at home.

2\) Karen does the same thing every day.  Does Karen do many new things?
 No, Karen does the same thing every day.

3\) Karen wants a new hobby.  Does Karen want a new hobby?  Yes, Karen
wants a new hobby.

4\) Karen’s food does not taste good.  Is Karen a good cook?  No, Karen
is not a good cook.  Her food does not taste good.

5\) Karen is afraid of water. Does Karen like swimming?  No, Karen does
not like swimming.  She is afraid of water.

6\) Karen sees a cat in a pet store.  Does Karen see a cat in a store?
 Yes Karen sees a cat in a pet store.

7\) Karen buys the cat from the pet store.  Does Karen buy the cat?
 Yes, Karen buys the cat from the pet store.

8\) Karen is now very happy because she has a cat.  Is Karen bored now?
 No, Karen is not bored.  She is now very happy because she has a cat.

*4*

A\)

My daughter goes to school every day.

She likes school very much.

She is a good student at school.

The teachers like my daughter a lot.

My daughter also has many friends.

Her best friend is Amy.

Amy likes math and science.

My daughter likes English and history.

They help each other with homework.

They study hard and do well in school.

B\)

I go to school every day.

I like school very much.

I am a good student at school.

My teachers like me a lot.

I also have many friends.

My best friend is Amy.

She likes math and science.

I like English and history.

We help each other with homework.

We study hard and do well in school.

**Questions:**

1\) The daughter goes to school every day. Does the daughter go to
school every day?  Yes, she goes to school every day.

2\) The daughter likes school. Does the daughter like school?  Yes, she
likes school.

3\) The daughter is a good student.  Is the daughter a bad student?  No,
the daughter is not a bad student.  She is a good student.

4\) The teachers like the daughter.  Do the teachers like the daughter?
 Yes, the teachers like her.

5\) Her best friend is named Amy. Is her best friend named Julie?  No,
her best friend is named Amy.

6\) Amy likes math and science.  Does Amy like English and history?  No,
she likes math and science.

7\) The daughter and Amy do well in school.  Does the daughter do well
in school?  Yes, the daughter and Amy do well in school.

*5*

A\)

Jon is in high school.

He has lots of homework.

Clare is a university student.

She has lots of homework, too.

Jon does not like homework.

He likes to play on his computer.

Clare likes reading and writing.

She does her homework every day.

Clare is Jon’s older sister.

She always makes him do his homework.

B\)

I am in high school.

I have lots of homework.

Clare is a university student.

She has lots of homework, too.

I do not like homework.

I like to play on my computer.

Clare likes reading and writing.

She does her homework every day.

Clare is my older sister.

She always makes me do my homework.

**Questions:**

1\) Jon is a high school student. Is Jon a high school student?  Yes,
Jon is a high school student.

2\) Jon has a lot of homework.  Does Jon have a lot of homework?  Yes,
Jon has a lot of homework.

3\) Clare is a university student.  Is Clare a high school student?  No,
Clare is not a high school student.  She is a university student.

4\) Jon likes playing on his computer.  Does Jon like playing on his
computer?  Yes, Jon likes playing on his computer.

5\) Clare likes reading and writing.  Does Clare like watching movies?
 No, Clare likes reading and writing.

6\) Clare does her homework every day.  Does Clare do her homework every
day?  Yes, Clare does her homework every day.

7\) Clare is Jon’s older sister.  Are Jon and Clare related?  Yes, Jon
and Clare are related.  Clare is Jon’s older sister.

8\) Clare makes Jon do his homework every day.  Does Clare make Jon do
his homework?  Yes, Clare makes Jon do his homework every day.

*6*

A\)

Jane and Fred are tired at night.

They eat dinner together at seven.

Their son eats dinner with them.

They relax and watch TV together.

Their son watches TV, too.

They put their son to bed at eight.

Jane has a hot bath.

Fred has a shower and brushes his teeth.

Jane reads a book, but falls asleep.

Fred also falls asleep soon.

B\)

Fred and I are tired at night.

We eat dinner together at seven.

Our son eats dinner with us.

We relax and watch TV together.

Our son watches TV, too.

We put our son to bed at eight.

I have a hot bath.

Fred has a shower and brushes his teeth.

I read a book, but fall asleep.

Fred also falls asleep soon.

**Questions:**

1\) Fred and Jane are tired. Are Fred and Jane tired?  Yes, they are
tired.

2\) They eat dinner at seven.  Do they eat dinner at six?  No, they do
not eat dinner at six.  They eat at seven.

3\) They have a son.  Do they have a daughter?  No, they do not have a
daughter, but they have a son.

4\) Their son watches TV with them.  Does their son watch TV?  Yes,
their son watches TV with them.

5\) He goes to bed at eight.  Does their son go to bed at nine?  No, he
goes to bed at eight.

6\) Jane has a hot bath.  Does Jane have a shower?  No, Jane doesn’t
have a shower.  She has a hot bath.

7\) Fred has a shower and brushes his teeth.  Does Fred brush his teeth?
 Yes, Fred has a shower and brushes his teeth.

8\) Jane reads a book. Does Jane read a book?  Yes, she reads a book.

*7*

A\)

James works in an office.

He is very busy every day.

He has many meetings with his customers.

James does not like these meetings.

He thinks they are very boring.

Some customers are friendly to James.

Some customers are not nice, though.

James takes long lunch breaks.

He can go home at five.

He waits every day for five to come.

B\)

I work in an office.

I am very busy every day.

I have many meetings with my customers.

I do not like these meetings.

I think they are very boring.

Some customers are friendly to me.

Some customers are not nice, though.

I take long lunch breaks.

I can go home at five.

I wait every day for five to come.

**Questions:**

1\) James works in an office.  Does James work at a school?  No, James
works in an office.

2\) James is very busy every day.  Is James very busy?  Yes, James is
very busy every day.

3\) James has many meetings with his customers.  Does James have a few
meetings?  No, James has many meetings with his customers.

4\) James thinks the meetings are boring.  Does James think the meetings
are boring?  Yes, James thinks the meetings are boring.

5\) Some of the customers are friendly.  Are all the customers friendly?
 No, some of the customers are friendly.

6\) James takes long lunch breaks.  Does James take short lunch breaks?
 No, he does not take short breaks.  He takes long lunch breaks.

7\) James can go home at five.  Can James go home at four?  No, he can
go home at five.

*8*

A\)

Lisa wants to buy new shoes.

She goes to a shoe store.

There are many pretty shoes there.

Lisa tries on a blue pair of shoes.

The blue shoes are too tight.

She tries on a black pair of shoes.

These shoes are very comfortable.

Lisa asks how much the black shoes cost.

The black shoes are four hundred and fifty dollars.

Lisa sadly puts the shoes down and leaves.

B\)

I want to buy new shoes.

I go to a shoe store.

There are many pretty shoes there.

I try on a blue pair of shoes.

The blue shoes are too tight.

I try on a black pair of shoes.

These shoes are very comfortable.

I ask how much the black shoes cost.

The black shoes are four hundred and fifty dollars.

I sadly put the shoes down and leave.

**Questions:**

1\) Lisa wants to buy new shoes.  Does Lisa want to buy new shoes?  Yes,
Lisa wants to buy new shoes.

2\) There are many pretty shoes in the shoe store.  .Are there many
shoes in the shoe store?  Yes, there are many pretty shoes in the shoe
store.

3\) Lisa tries on a blue and a black pair of shoes.  Does Lisa try on
two pairs of shoes?  Yes, Lisa tries on two pairs of shoes.  She tries
on a blue and a black pair.

4\) First, Lisa tries a pair of blue shoes.  Does Lisa try a pair of red
shoes first?  No, Lisa does not try a pair of red shoes.  She tries a
pair of blue shoes.

5\) The blue shoes are too tight. Are the blue shoes comfortable?  No,
the blue shoes are not comfortable.  They are too tight.

6\) The black shoes are very comfortable.  Are the black shoes
comfortable?  Yes, the black shoes are very comfortable.

7\) The black shoes are four hundred and fifty dollars.  Are the black
shoes expensive?  Yes, the black shoes are expensive.  They are four
hundred and fifty dollars.

8\) Lisa puts down the shoes and leaves the store.  Does Lisa buy the
shoes?  No, Lisa does not buy the shoes.  She puts them down and leaves
the store.

*9*

A\)

Andy has a new girlfriend.

His girlfriend’s name is Sara.

Andy wants to make dinner for Sara.

He goes to the grocery store.

Andy gets a basket and a cart.

He walks past the vegetable aisle.

He looks at the fish in the freezer.

He stands near the salad counter.

Finally, he leaves the store.

Andy goes home and orders pizza.

B\)

I have a new girlfriend.

Her name is Sara.

I want to make dinner for Sara.

I go to the grocery store.

I get a basket and a cart.

I walk past the vegetable aisle.

I look at the fish in the freezer.

I stand near the salad counter.

Finally, I leave the store.

I go home and order pizza.

**Questions:**

1\) Andy has a new girlfriend named Sara. Does Andy have a new
girlfriend?  Yes, Andy has a new girlfriend.  Her name is Sara.

2\) Andy wants to make Sara dinner.  Does Andy want to make lunch for
Sara?  No, Andy does not want to make lunch for Sara.  He wants to make
her dinner.

3\) Andy goes to the grocery store to buy food.  Does Andy go to the
grocery store?  Yes, Andy goes to the grocery store to buy food.

4\) Andy walks past the vegetable section.  Does Andy buy vegetables?
 No, Andy does not buy vegetables.  He walks past the vegetable section.

5\) Andy looks at the fish in the freezer, but he doesn’t buy any.  Does
Andy look at the fish?  Yes, Andy looks at the fish in the freezer, but
he doesn’t buy any.

6\) Andy finally leaves the store and goes home.  Does Andy stay in the
store?  No, Andy finally leaves the store and goes home.

7\) Andy orders pizza instead. Does Andy make dinner?  No, Andy does not
make dinner.  He orders pizza instead.

*10*

A\)

Jack is going to a birthday party.

He needs to buy a present for Meg.

Jack doesn’t go to many parties, though.

He is nervous and wonders what to buy.

Meg likes jewelry, animals, and the colour blue.

Jack goes to a jewelry store.

He sees a pretty, silver necklace.

The necklace has a blue cat on it.

Jack is happy, and he buys the necklace.

He hopes Meg will like the necklace.

B\)

I am going to a birthday party.

I need to buy a present for Meg.

I don’t go to many parties, though.

I am nervous and wonder what to buy.

Meg likes jewelry, animals, and the colour blue.

I go to a jewelry store.

I see a pretty, silver necklace.

The necklace has a blue cat on it.

I am happy, and I buy the necklace.

I hope Meg will like the necklace.

**Questions:**

1\) Jack is going to a birthday party for Meg.  Is Jack going to a
birthday party?  Yes, Jack is going to a birthday party for Meg.

2\) Jack does not go to many parties, so he feels nervous.  Does Jack go
to many parties?  No, Jack does not go to many parties, so he feels
nervous.

3\) Meg likes animals, and the colour blue.  Does Meg like animals?
 Yes, Meg likes animals, and she also likes the colour blue.

4\) Jack goes to a jewelry store.  Does Meg go to a jewelry store?  No,
Meg does not go to a jewelry store, but Jack does.

5\) Jack sees a silver necklace.  Does Jack see a silver ring?  No, he
sees a silver necklace, not a ring.

6\) The necklace is silver. Is the necklace silver, or gold?  The
necklace is silver, not gold.

7\) There is a blue cat on the necklace. Is there a purple cat on the
necklace?  No, there is not.  There is a blue cat on the necklace.

8\) Jack buys the necklace because he hopes Meg will like it. Does Jack
buy the necklace?  Yes, Jack buys the necklace because he hopes Meg will
like it

*11*

A\)

Brad’s apartment is too small.

He wants to move to a new apartment.

He looks at pictures of apartments on the internet.

One apartment is very cheap.

But it is old and empty.

Another apartment has furniture.

It has a bed, a TV, and a stove.

That apartment is expensive, though.

Brad decides to save more money.

Then, he can move next year.

B\)

My apartment is too small.

I want to move to a new apartment.

I look at pictures of apartments on the internet.

One apartment is very cheap.

But it is old and empty.

Another apartment has furniture.

It has a bed, a TV, and a stove.

That apartment is expensive, though.

I decide to save more money.

Then, I can move next year.

**Questions:**

1\) Brad’s apartment is too small.  Is Brad’s apartment big?  No, his
apartment is not big.  It is too small.

2\) Brad wants to move to a new apartment.  Does Brad want to move?
 Yes, Brad wants to move to a new apartment.

3\) Brad looks at pictures of apartments on the internet.  Does Brad
look at pictures on the internet?  Yes, Brad looks at pictures of
apartments on the internet.

4\) The first apartment is cheap.  Is the first apartment expensive?
 No, the first apartment is not expensive.  It is cheap.

5\) The first apartment is old and empty. Is the first apartment old?
 Yes, the first apartment is old and empty.

6\) The other apartment has a bed, a TV, and a stove.  Does the other
apartment have furniture?  Yes, the other apartment has a bed, a TV, and
a stove.

7\) The other apartment is expensive.  Is the other apartment cheap?
 No, the other apartment is not cheap, it is expensive.

8\) Brad decides to save more money.  Does Brad want to save more money?
 Yes, Brad decides to save more money.

9\) Brad can move next year. Can Brad move this year?  No, Brad can’t
move this year.  He can move next year.

*12*

A\)

Janet uses the computer a lot.

But, she needs a new computer.

Her computer is old and slow.

She goes to an electronic store.

She sees many computers in the store.

She wants a big screen on her computer.

And she wants a good keyboard.

She sees a nice, blue computer.

She likes the screen, the keyboard, and the style.

She buys the computer with a credit card.

B\)

I use the computer a lot.

But, I need a new computer.

My computer is old and slow.

I go to an electronic store.

I see many computers in the store.

I want a big screen on my computer.

And I want a good keyboard.

I see a nice, blue computer.

I like the screen, the keyboard, and the style.

I buy the computer with a credit card.

**Questions:**

1\) Janet uses the computer a lot. Does Janet use the computer a lot?
 Yes, she uses the computer a lot.

2\) Janet needs a new computer. Does Janet need a new computer?  Yes,
she needs a new computer.

3\) Janet’s computer is old, and slow.  Is Janet’s computer new?  No,
her computer is not new.  It is old, and slow.

4\) Janet sees many computers in the electronics store.  Are there many
computers in the store?  Yes, Janet sees many computers in the
electronics store.

5\) Janet wants a big screen on her computer.  Does Janet want a small
screen?  No, Janet wants a big screen on her computer.

6\) Janet wants a good keyboard for her computer.  Does Janet want a
good keyboard?  Yes, Janet wants a good keyboard for her computer.

7\) Janet sees a blue computer.  Does Janet see a black computer?  No,
she does not see a black computer.  She sees a blue computer.

8\) Janet likes the blue computer’s screen, keyboard, and style.  Does
Janet like the blue computer?  Yes, Janet likes the blue computer’s
screen, keyboard, and style.

9\) Janet buys the computer with a credit card.  Does Janet buy the
computer with cash?  No, she doesn’t use cash.  She buys it with a
credit card.

*13*

A\)

Kimi is in a restaurant.

She has a date with Saul.

Kimi doesn’t know Saul.

But he is a friend of a friend.

Saul comes on time.

He says, “Hello!” and Kimi says, “Hi!”

Saul sits down, and Kimi looks at him.

She thinks he is very handsome.

Kimi smiles, and Saul looks at her.

“You have a nice smile,” Saul says.

B\)

I am in a restaurant.

I have a date with Saul.

I don’t know Saul.

But he is a friend of a friend.

He comes on time.

He says, “Hello!”, and I say, “Hi!”

He sits down, and I look at him.

I think he is very handsome.

I smile, and Saul looks at me.

“You have a nice smile,” Saul says.

**Questions:**

1\) Kimi is at a restaurant.  Is Kimi at home?  No, Kimi is not at home.
 She is at a restaurant.

2\) Kimi has a date with Saul.  Does Kimi have a date with George?  No,
Kimi does not have a date with George.  She has a date with Saul.

3\) Kimi does not know Saul, but he is a friend of a friend.  Does Kimi
know Saul?  No, Kimi does not know Saul, but he is a friend of a friend.

4\) Saul comes to the restaurant on time.  Does Saul come to the
restaurant on time?  Yes, Saul comes to the restaurant on time.

5\) Saul says “Hello!” to Kimi.  Does Saul say, “Hello”?  Yes, Saul says
“Hello!” to Kimi.

6\) Kimi thinks Saul is handsome.  Does Kimi think Saul is handsome?
 Yes, Kimi thinks Saul is handsome.

7\) Saul looks at Kimi.  Does Saul look at Kimi?  Yes, Saul looks at
Kimi.

8\) Saul says Kimi has a nice smile.  Does Saul say he likes Kimi’s
smile?  Yes, Saul says Kimi has a nice smile.

*14*

A\)

Kelly likes to listen to music.

She wants to learn how to dance.

She goes to her first dance class.

The teacher tells her to stretch her legs.

Kelly tries to stretch her legs.

But she can’t stretch very far.

The teacher tells her to jump.

Kelly tries to jump, but falls down.

Kelly’s muscles are sore after class.

Maybe she can’t learn how to dance.

B\)

I like to listen to music.

I want to learn how to dance.

I go to my first dance class.

The teacher tells me to stretch my legs.

I try to stretch my legs.

But I can’t stretch very far.

The teacher tells me to jump.

I try to jump, but fall down.

My muscles are sore after class.

Maybe I can’t learn how to dance.

**Questions:**

1\) Kelly likes to listen to music.  Does Kelly like music?  Yes, Kelly
likes to listen to music.

2\) Kelly wants to learn how to dance.  Does Kelly want to learn how to
dance?  Yes, Kelly wants to learn how to dance.

3\) Kelly goes to a dance class.  Does Kelly go to a piano class?  No,
Kelly does not go to a piano class.  She goes to a dance class.

4\) The teacher tells Kelly to stretch her legs.  Does the teacher tell
Kelly to stretch her arms?  No, the teacher does not tell her to stretch
her arms.  The teacher tells her to stretch her legs.

5\) Kelly can’t stretch her legs very far. Can Kelly stretch her legs
far?  No, Kelly can’t stretch her legs very far.

6\) Kelly tries to jump, but she falls down. Does Kelly fall down?  Yes,
Kelly tries to jump, but she falls down.

7\) Kelly’s muscles are sore after class.  Are Kelly’s muscles sore
after class?  Yes, Kelly’s muscles are sore after class.

8\) Maybe Kelly can’t learn how to dance.  Can Kelly learn how to dance?
 Maybe Kelly can’t learn how to dance.

*15*

A\)

Mara and Emily want to lose weight.

They want to go to a gym.

Going to a gym is expensive, though.

So, they decide to exercise at home.

Mara tries to run, and Emily lifts weights.

Mara doesn’t like running, though.

And Emily is not very strong.

They are also very busy.

They don’t have time to exercise.

Maybe they can try again next week.

B\)

Emily and I want to lose weight.

We want to go to a gym.

Going to a gym is expensive, though.

So, we decide to exercise at home.

I try to run, and Emily lifts weights.

I don’t like running, though.

And Emily is not very strong.

We are also very busy.

We don’t have time to exercise.

Maybe we can try again next week.

**Questions:**

1\) Mara and Emily want to exercise at the gym.  Do Mara and Emily want
to exercise?  Yes, they want to exercise at a gym.

2\) Going to a gym is expensive. Is going to a gym cheap?  No, it is not
cheap.  Going to a gym is expensive.

3\) They decide to exercise at home, because the gym is too expensive.
 Do they decide to exercise at home?  Yes, they decide to exercise at
home, because the gym is too expensive.

4\) Mara does not like running.  Does Mara like to run?  No, Mara does
not like running.

5\) Emily tries lifting weights, but she is not very strong.  Does Emily
try running, too?  No, Emily tries lifting weights.

6\) Emily is not strong.  Is Emily strong?  No, Emily is not strong.  

7\) Mara and Emily are very busy, so they don’t have a lot of time to
exercise.  Are Mara and Emily very busy?  Yes, they are very busy, so
they don’t have a lot of time to exercise.

*16*

A\)

Gene wants a new job.

He doesn’t like his office job.

He thinks his job is too boring.

Gene wants a more exciting job.

He looks for a new job online.

There are many jobs in restaurants.

There are also many jobs in stores.

Gene can’t cook very well.

But he likes shopping and talking to people.

Gene hopes he can find a job in a store.

B\)

I want a new job.

I don’t like my office job.

I think my job is too boring.

I want a more exciting job.

I look for a new job online.

There are many jobs in restaurants.

There are also many jobs in stores.

I can’t cook very well.

But I like shopping and talking to people.

I hope I can find a job in a store.

**Questions:**

1\) Gene wants a new job.  Does Gene want a new job?  Yes, Gene wants a
new job.

2\) Gene thinks his job is too boring.  Does Gene like his office job?
 No, he doesn’t like his office job.  He thinks his job is too boring.

3\) Gene wants a more exciting job.  Does Gene want a boring job?  No,
Gene wants a more exciting job.

4\) Gene looks for a new job online.  Does Gene look for a job online?
 Yes, he looks for a new job online.

5\) There are many jobs in restaurants.  Are there many jobs in
restaurants?  Yes, there are many jobs in restaurants.

6\) Gene can’t cook very well.  Can Gene cook well?  No, Gene can’t cook
very well.

7\) Gene likes shopping and talking to people.  Does Gene like talking
to people?  Yes, Gene likes talking to people, and shopping.

8\) Gene wants to find a job in a store.  Does Gene want a job in a
restaurant?  No, he doesn’t want a job in a restaurant.  He wants to
find a job in a store.  

*17*

A\)

Marco is coming home from work.

He drives home from work every day.

There are many other cars on the highway.

The highway is too crowded to move.

Marco feels frustrated and angry.

He turns on the radio to hear the news.

Then, he listens to some songs.

Still, Marco is bored and tired.

The highway is too crowded every day.

Marco thinks about buying a motorcycle instead.

B\)

I am coming home from work.

I drive home from work every day.

There are many other cars on the highway.

The highway is too crowded to move.

I feel frustrated and angry.

I turn on the radio to hear the news.

Then, I listen to some songs.

Still, I am bored and tired.

The highway is too crowded every day.

I think about buying a motorcycle instead.

**Questions:**

1\) Marco is coming home from work in his car.  Is Marco at work?  No,
Marco is not at work.  He is coming home from work in his car.

2\) There are many other cars on the highway with Marco.  Are there
other cars on the highway?  Yes, there are many other cars on the
highway with Marco.

3\) Marco cannot move because the highway is too crowded.  Can Marco
move?  No, Marco cannot move because the highway is too crowded.

4\) Marco feels frustrated and angry.  Does Marco feel happy?  No, Marco
does not feel happy.  He feels frustrated and angry.

5\) Marco listens to the news on the radio in his car.  Does Marco
listen to the news?  Yes, Marco listens to the news on the radio in his
car.

6\) The highway is always crowded every day.  Is the highway always
crowded?  Yes, the highway is always crowded every day.

7\) Marco thinks he might buy a motorcycle instead of driving.  Does
Marco want a motorcycle?  Yes, he thinks he might buy a motorcycle
instead of driving.  

*18*

A\)

Ashley is getting dressed in the morning.

She doesn’t know what to wear.

She looks in her closet.

She sees a brown skirt.

But it’s very cold today!

She sees a pair of black pants.

But they are very old.

And she has a meeting at work today.

Ashley puts on the brown skirt.

She looks good, but her legs are cold.

B\)

I am getting dressed in the morning.

I don’t know what to wear.

I look in my closet.

I see a brown skirt.

But it’s very cold today!

I see a pair of black pants.

But they are very old.

And I have a meeting at work today.

I put on the brown skirt.

I look good, but my legs are cold.

**Questions:**

1\) Ashley is getting dressed in the morning.  Is Ashley getting dressed
at night?  No, she is not getting dressed at night.  She is getting
dressed in the morning.

2\) Ashely does not know what to wear.  Does Ashley know what to wear?
 No, she does not know what to wear.

3\) Ashley looks in her closet for something to wear.  Does Ashley look
in her closet?  Yes, Ashley looks in her closet for something to wear.

4\) There is a brown skirt in the closet.  Is there a brown skirt in the
closet?  Yes, there is a brown skirt in the closet.

5\) It is very cold today.  Is it warm today?  No, it is not warm today.
 It is very cold.

6\) Ashley sees a pair of black pants.  Does Ashley see some pants?
 Yes, Ashley sees a pair of black pants.

7\) The pants are old. Are the pants new?  No, the pants are not new.
 They are old.

8\) Ashley has a meeting at work today.  Does Ashley have a meeting
today?  Yes, Ashley has a meeting at work today.

9\) Ashley wears the brown skirt.  Does Ashley wear the pants?  No,
Ashley does not wear the pants.  She wears the brown skirt.

10\) Ashley’s legs are cold.  Is Ashley warm in her skirt?  No, she’s
not warm.  Her legs are cold.

*19*

A\)

Kyle is taking a break at school.

It’s twelve o'clock and it’s time for lunch.

Kyle doesn’t have a lunch from home.

He has to buy his lunch at school.

He goes to the cafeteria.

He sees French fries, and a salad.

His Mom wants him to eat the salad.

But Kyle wants to eat the French fries.

He thinks for a minute.

Then, he buys and eats the French fries.

B\)

I am taking a break at school.

It’s twelve o’clock and it’s time for lunch.

I don’t have a lunch from home.

I have to buy a lunch at school.

I go to the cafeteria.

I see French fries, and a salad.

My Mom wants me to eat the salad.

But I want to eat the French fries.

I think for a minute.

Then, I buy and eat the French fries.

**Questions:**

1\) Kyle is taking a break at school.  Is Kyle working at school?  No,
he is not working.  He is taking a break at school.

2\) It’s twelve o’clock and it’s time for lunch.  Is it lunchtime?  Yes,
it’s lunchtime.  It’s twelve o’clock.

3\) Kyle does not have a lunch.  Does Kyle have a lunch?  No, Kyle does
not have a lunch.  

4\) Kyle goes to the cafeteria.  Does Kyle go to a restaurant?  No, Kyle
goes to the cafeteria.

5\) Kyle sees a salad, and French fries, in the cafeteria.  Does Kyle
see a salad?  Yes, Kyle sees a salad, and French fries, in the
cafeteria.

6\) His Mom wants him to eat the salad, not the French fries.  Does
Kyle’s Mom want him to eat the salad?  Yes, his Mom wants him to eat the
salad, not the French fries.

7\) Kyle buys and eats the French fries.  Does Kyle buy the salad?  No,
Kyle does not buy the salad.  He buys and eats the French fries.

**
**

*20*

A\)

Alissa is trying to go to work.

She is trying to start her car.

But it’s too cold outside.

So her car isn’t starting.

She checks the bus schedule first.

The city buses are too slow.

She checks the train schedule instead.

The trains are running on time.

She decides to take the train to work.

She hopes she won’t be late for work.

B\)

I needed to go to work.

I tried to start my car.

But it was too cold outside.

So my car wouldn’t start.

I checked the bus schedule first.

The city buses were too slow.

I checked the train schedule instead.

The trains were running on time.

I decided to take the train to work.

I hoped I wouldn’t be late for work.

**Questions:
A)**

1\) Alissa is trying to go to work.  Is Alissa trying to go to work?
Yes, Alissa is trying to go to work.

2\) It’s cold outside.  Is it hot outside?  No, it’s not hot outside.
 It’s cold outside.

3\) Alissa’s car won’t start because it’s too cold outside. Does
Alissa’s car start?  No, Alissa’s car won’t start because it’s too cold
outside.

4\) Alissa checks the bus schedule first.  Does Alissa check the train
schedule first?  No, she doesn’t.  Alissa checks the bus schedule first.

**B)**
5) The city buses were too slow.  Were the city buses slow?  Yes, the
city buses were too slow.

6\) The trains were running on time.  Were the trains running late?  No,
the trains were not running late.  They were running on time.

7\) Alissa decided to take the train to work.  Did Alissa decide to take
the bus to work?  No, Alissa didn’t decide to take the bus.  She decided
to take the train to work.

8\) Alissa hoped she wouldn’t be late for work.  Did Alissa want to be
late? No, she didn’t want to be late.  She hoped she wouldn’t be late
for work.

*21*

A\)

Jerry is taking a day off from work.

He wants to go see a movie.

Jerry likes comedy movies more than romance movies.

And he doesn’t like science fiction movies as much as action movies.

He is checking the list of new movies online.

There are five new movies playing.

Three of the new movies are romance movies.

One of the movies is a science fiction movie.

One of the movies is a comedy.

Jerry is thinking about seeing the new comedy movie.

B\)

I took a day off from work.

I wanted to go see a movie.

I like comedy movies more than romance movies.

And I don’t like science fiction movies as much as action movies.

I checked the list of new movies online.

There were five new movies playing.

Three of the new movies were romance movies.

One of the movies was a science fiction movie.

One of the movies was a comedy.

I thought about going to see the new comedy movie.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Jerry has a day off from work.  Is Jerry working today?  No, Jerry is
not working.  He has a day off from work.

2\) Jerry wants to go see a movie.  What does Jerry want to go see?  He
wants to go see a movie.

3\) Jerry doesn’t like romance movies, or science fiction movies.  Does
Jerry like romance movies?  No, Jerry doesn’t like romance movies, or
science fiction movies.

4\) Jerry likes comedy and action movies.  What movies does Jerry like?
 He likes comedy and action movies.
**B)**

5\) Jerry checked the list of new movies online.  What list did Jerry
check?  Jerry checked the list of new movies online.

6\) There were five new movies playing.  Were there five new movies
playing?  Yes, there were five new movies playing.

7\) There was one science fiction movie playing.  Were there any science
fiction movies playing?  Yes, there was one science fiction movie
playing.

8\) Jerry decided to see the new comedy movie.  What movie did Jerry
decide to see?  He decided to see the new comedy movie.

*22*

A\)

Emma isn’t feeling very well.

She has a headache and a sore throat.

She is also sneezing a lot.

She decides to go to the doctor.

She tells the doctor how she feels.

The doctor tells Emma she has a cold.

Emma asks the doctor for some medicine.

The doctor says Emma doesn’t need medicine for a cold.

The doctor tells Emma to sleep and drink water instead.

Emma isn’t feeling better when she leaves the doctor.

B\)

I didn’t feel very well.

I had a headache and a sore throat.

I was also sneezing a lot.

I decided to go to the doctor.

I told the doctor how I felt.

The doctor told me I had a cold.

I asked the doctor for some medicine.

The doctor said I didn’t need medicine for a cold.

The doctor told me to sleep and drink water instead.

I didn’t feel better when I left the doctor.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Emma isn’t feeling well.  Is Emma feeling well?  No, she isn’t
feeling well.  

2\) Emma has a headache and a sore throat.  What does she have?  She has
a headache and a sore throat.

3\) Emaa is sneezing a lot.  What is Emma doing a lot?  She is sneezing
a lot.

4\) Emma decides to go to the doctor.  What does Emma decide to do? She
decides to go to the doctor.

5\) Emma tells the doctor how she feels.  What does she tell the doctor?
 She tells the doctor how she feels.
**B)**

6\) The doctor told Emma that she has a cold.  What did the doctor tell
Emma?  The doctor told her that she has a cold.

7\) The doctor said Emma didn’t need medicine for a cold.  Did the
doctor say Emma needs medicine?  No, the doctor said Emma didn’t need
medicine for a cold.

8\) The doctor told Emma to sleep and drink water instead.  What did the
doctor tell Emma to do instead?  The doctor told Emma to sleep and drink
water instead.

9\) Emma didn’t feel better when she left the doctor.  Did Emma feel
better when she left the doctor? No, Emma didn’t feel better when she
left the doctor.   

*23*

A\)

Louie is a university student.

He is graduating this month.

But first, he has to write some exams.

Louie has to write six exams.

Louie has to study a lot for his exams.

This weekend, though, Louie’s friend is having a birthday.

Louie’s friend wants him to come to his party.

Louie wants to go to his friend’s party.

Finally, he decides to go to his friend’s party.

He is going to study for his exams after the party.

B\)

I was a university student.

I was graduating this month.

But first, I had to write some exams.

I had to write six exams.

I had to study a lot for my exams.

This weekend, though, my friend had a birthday.

My friend wanted me to come to his party.

I wanted to go to my friend’s party.

Finally, I decided to go to my friend’s party.

I studied for my exams after the party.

**Questions:
A)**

1\) Louie is university student.  What is Louie?  Louie is a university
student.

2\) Louie is graduating this month.  When is Louie graduating? Louie is
graduating this month.

3\) First, Louie has to write some exams.  What does Louie have to do
first?  First, Louie has to write some exams.

4\) Louie has to write six exams.  Does Louie have to write nine exams?
 No, Louie does not have to write nine exams.  He has to write six
exams.
**B)**

5\) Louie’s friend had a birthday this weekend.  What did Louie’s friend
have this weekend?  Louie’s friend had a birthday this weekend.

6\) Louie’s friend wanted Louie to come to his party this weekend.  What
did Louie’s friend want?  Louie’s friend wanted Louie to come to his
party this weekend.

7\) Louie wanted to go to his friend’s party.  Did Louie want to go to
his friend’s party?  Yes, Louie wanted to go to his friend’s party.

8\) Louie decided to go to his friend’s party.  What did Louie decide?
 Louie decided to go to his friend’s party.

9\) Louie studied for his exams after the party.  When did Louie study
for his exams?  Louie studied for his exams after the party.

*24*

**A)**

Carl is looking for a new job.

He has a job interview tomorrow.

He must look professional for his interview.

But Carl’s clothes are very old.

He is thinking about buying a new suit.

Carl goes to the clothing store.

He tries on some new suits.

Finally, he buys a grey suit.

Carl thinks he looks good in his new suit.

He’s going to be ready for his interview tomorrow.

**B)**

I was looking for a new job.

I had a job interview yesterday.

I had to look professional for my interview.

But my clothes were very old.

I decided to buy a new suit.

I went to the clothing store.

I tried on some new suits.

Finally, I bought a grey suit.

I thought I looked good in my new suit.

I was ready for my interview yesterday.

**Questions:**

**A)**

1\) Carl is looking for a new job. What is Carl looking for?  He is
looking for a new job.

2\) Carl has a job interview tomorrow.  What does Carl have tomorrow?
 He has a job interview tomorrow.

3\) Carl’s clothes are very old.  Are Carl’s clothes new?  No, Carl’s
clothes are not new.  They are very old.

4\) Carl is thinking about buying a new suit.  What is Carl thinking
about buying?  Carl is thinking about buying a new suit.
**B)**

5\) Carl tried on some new suits.  What did Carl do?  Carl tried on some
new suits.

6\) Carl finally bought a grey suit.  What colour suit did Carl finally
buy?  Carl finally bought a grey suit.

7\) Carl thought he looked good in his new suit.  How did Carl feel in
his new suit?  Carl thought he looked good in his new suit.

8\) Carl was ready for his interview yesterday.  Was Carl ready for his
interview yesterday?  Yes, Carl was ready for his interview yesterday.

**
**

*25*

**A)**

Dave’s wife will have a new baby.

Dave and his wife have one son and one daughter.

They are very excited to have another baby.

The new baby will be a boy.

But they don’t know what name to give the baby.

They decide to ask their parents.

Their parents give them some ideas.

Some ideas are better than some others.

Dave and his wife will call the baby ‘Ethan’.

They hope the baby will be happy with this name.

**B)**

My wife was having a baby.

My wife and I have one son and one daughter.

We were very excited to have another baby.

The new baby was going to be a boy.

But we didn’t know what name to give the baby.

We decided to ask our parents.

Our parents gave us some ideas.

Some ideas were better than some others.

My wife and I called the baby ‘Ethan’.

We hoped the baby was going to be happy with his name.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Dave’s wife will have a baby.  What will Dave’s wife have?  Dave’s
wife will have a baby.

2\) Dave and his wife have two children, one son and one daughter.  How
many children do Dave and his wife have?  They have two children, one
son and one daughter.

3\) They are very excited to have another baby.  How do they feel about
having another baby?  They are very excited to have another baby.

4\) The new baby will be a boy.  Will the new baby be a girl?  No, the
new baby will not be a girl.  The new baby will be a boy.

5\) They do not know what name to give the baby.  Do they know what name
to give the baby?  No, they do not know what name to give the baby.
**B)**

6\) They decide to ask their parents about baby names.  What do they
decide to do?  They decide to ask their parents about baby names.

7\) Their parents give them some ideas.  What do their parents do?
 Their parents give them some ideas.

8\) Some ideas were better than some others.  Were all the ideas good?
 No, not all the ideas were good.  Some ideas were better than some
others.

9\) Dave and his wife called the baby ‘Ethan’.  What did Dave and his
wife call the baby?  They called the baby ‘Ethan’.

10\)  Dave and his wife hoped the baby was going to be happy with his
name.  What did Dave and his wife hope?  They hoped the baby was going
to be happy with his name.

*26*

**A)**

Alex will clean his room.

He has many things to do.

First, he will put his dirty clothes in a pile.

Then, he will wash his clothes in the washing machine.

He will also clean under his bed.

He will find many toys under the bed.

He will put all of his toys in the closet.

Finally, he will clean up his desk

And put his school work on his desk

He thinks his Mom will be very happy.

**B)**

I was cleaning my room.

I had many things to do.

First, I put my dirty clothes in a pile.

Then, I washed my clothes in the washing machine.

I also cleaned under my bed.

I was finding many toys under the bed.

I put all of the toys in the closet.

Finally, I cleaned up my desk

And put my school work on my desk.

I was thinking my Mom would be very happy.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Alex will clean his room.  What will Alex do?  He will clean his
room.

2\) Alex has many things to do.  Does he have a few things to do?  No,
he does not have a few things to do.  He has many things to do.

3\) First, he will put his dirty clothes in a pile.  What will he do
first?  First, he will put his dirty clothes in a pile.

4\) Then, he will wash his clothes in the washing machine.  Then, what
will he do?  Then, he will wash his clothes in the washing machine.

5\) Alex will also clean under his bed.  What else will Alex do?  Alex
will also clean under his bed.
**B)**

6\) Alex was finding many toys under his bed.  What was Alex finding
under his bed?  He was finding many toys under his bed.

7\) Alex put all of the toys in the closet.  Where did he put the toys?
 He put all of the toys in the closet.

8\) Finally, Alex cleaned up his desk and put his school work there.
 What did Alex do finally?  Finally, Alex cleaned up his desk and put
his school work there.

9\) Alex was thinking his Mom would be very happy.  What was Alex
thinking his Mom would feel?  Alex was thinking his Mom would be very
happy.

*27*

**A)**

Bill will go on a trip.

He doesn’t have much money, though

So he will go somewhere cheap.

He always leaves the country when he travels

So this time, he will go to Canada.

Bill is from the United States

So Canada is very close.

Bill will only stay in Canada for a few days.

He will stay in a big city

And he will take lots of pictures there.

**B)**

I was planning to go on a trip.

I didn’t have much money, though

So, I was planning to go somewhere cheap.

I always leave the country when I travel

So this time, I was going to go to Canada.

I’m from the United States

So Canada is very close.

I was only going to stay in Canada for a few days.

But I was going to stay in a big city

And I was going to take lots of pictures there.

**Questions:**

1\) Bill will go on a trip.  What will Bill do?  Bill will go on a trip.

2\) Bill doesn’t have much money.  What problem does Bill have, though?
 Bill doesn’t have much money.

3\) He will go somewhere cheap.  What will Bill do because he doesn’t
have much money?  He will go somewhere cheap.

4\) Bill always leaves the country when he travels.  What does Bill
always do when he travels?  Bill always leaves the country when he
travels.
**B)**

5\) This time, he was going to go to Canada.  Because he always leaves
the country, where was Bill going to go this time?  This time, he was
going to go to Canada.

6\) Bill is from the United States.  Where is Bill from?  Bill is from
the United States.

7\) Bill was only going to stay in Canada for a few days.  How long was
Bill going to stay in Canada?  Bill was going to stay in Canada only for
a few days.

8\) He was going to stay in a big city.  What kind of city was Bill
going to stay in?  He was going to stay in a big city.

9\) Bill was going to take lots of pictures there.  What was Bill going
to do there?  Bill was going to take lots of pictures there.

*28*

**A)**

Stella will visit a new country.

She must plan her trip around the new country.

She wants to travel around the country by train.

First, she will go to a big city.

Then, she’ll visit some famous places in the city.

After that, she’ll go to the country by car.

There, she’ll take many pictures.

She wants to show her pictures to her friends.

After her trip, she’ll show each of her pictures online.

She hopes the internet connection will be good.

**B)**

I was visiting a new country.

I had to plan a trip around the new country.

I was wanting to travel around the country by train.

First, I was going to go to a big city.

Then, I was going to visit some famous places in the city.

After that, I was going to go to the country by car.

There, I was going to take many pictures.

I was wanting to show my pictures to my friends.

After my trip, I was going to show each of my pictures online.

I was hoping the internet connection would be good.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Stella will visit a new country.  What will Stella do?  She will
visit a new country.

2\) Stella must plan her trip around the country.  What must Stella do?
 She must plan her trip around the country.

3\) Stella wants to travel around the country by train.  How does Stella
want to travel?  She wants to travel around the country by train.

4\) Stella will go to a big city first.  Where will she go first?  She
will go to a big city first.

5\) Stella will visit some famous places in the city.  What will she do
in the city?  She will visit some famous places in the city.
**B)**

6\) She was going to go to the country by car.  How was she going to go
to the country?  She was going to go to the country by car.

7\) She was going to take many pictures there.  How many pictures was
going to take there?  She was going to take many pictures there.

8\) She was wanting to show her pictures to her friends.  Who was
wanting to show her pictures to?  She was wanting to show her pictures
to her friends.

9\) She was going to show each of her pictures online after her trip.
 When was she going to show her pictures online?  She was going to show
each of her pictures online after her trip.

10\) She was hoping the internet connection would be good.  What was she
hoping for?  She was hoping the internet connection would be good.

*29*

**A)**

Layne will learn how to cook.

He’ll learn a new recipe from the internet.

He will try to make pasta.

He will buy many vegetables for the pasta.

He’ll buy some mushrooms, some peppers, and some tomatoes.

He’ll also buy lots of pasta noodles this morning.

He’ll have one whole bag of pasta noodles.

Then, he will make the pasta sauce.

But Layne won’t know how to make the pasta sauce.

He’ll look at the recipe online again.

**B)**

I was learning how to cook.

I was learning a new recipe from the internet.

I was trying to make pasta.

I bought many vegetables for the pasta.

I bought some mushrooms, some peppers, and some tomatoes.

I also bought lots of pasta noodles this morning.

I had one whole bag of pasta noodles.

Then, I had to make the pasta sauce.

But I forgot how to make the pasta sauce.

I was going to look at the recipe online again.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Layne will learn how to cook.  What will Layne learn?  Layne will
learn how to cook.

2\) Layne will learn a new recipe from the internet.  Where will Layne
learn a new recipe?  He will learn a new recipe from the internet.

3\) He will try to make pasta.  What will he try to make?  He will try
to make pasta.

4\) Layne will buy many vegetables.  What will Layne buy?  Layne will
buy many vegetables.

5\) Layne will buy mushrooms, peppers, and tomatoes.  What kind of
vegetables will Layne buy?  He will buy mushrooms, peppers, and
tomatoes.
**B)**

6\) He bought the pasta noodles this morning.  When did he buy the pasta
noodles?  He bought the pasta noodles this morning.

7\) He had lots of pasta noodles.  How many pasta noodles did he have?
 He had lots of pasta noodles.  

8\) He had to make the pasta sauce then.  What did he have to do then?
 He had to make the pasta sauce then.

9\) He forgot how to make the pasta sauce.  Can he remember how to make
the pasta sauce?  No, he forgot how to make it.  
10) He was going to look at the recipe online.  Where was he going to
look at the recipe?  He was going to look at the recipe online.

*30*

**A)**

James used to wake up early on Saturdays.

Usually he looked outside to check the weather.

Often he had seen that the weather was nice and sunny.

When it was, James usually decided to go to the beach.

The beach was about an hour away by car.

Each time he left, he first looked for his bathing suit.

But each time it was difficult to find his bathing suit.

Usually James finally found it in his closet.

Sometimes, by the time he was ready to leave, the weather had become
cloudy!

Then he’d hoped to go to the beach the next day.  

**B)**

I have been waking up early on Saturdays.

Usually, I look outside to check the weather.

Often, I have been seeing that the weather is nice and sunny.

When it is, I usually decide to go to the beach.

The beach is about an hour away by car.

Each time I leave, I first look for my bathing suit.

But each time it’s difficult to find my bathing suit.

Usually I finally find it in my closet.

Sometimes, by the time I’m ready to leave, the weather has turned
cloudy!

Then I hope to go to the beach the next day.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) James used to wake up early on Saturdays.  Did James used to wake up
late on Saturdays?  No, James used to wake up early on Saturdays.

2\) James usually looked outside to check the weather.  What did James
usually do to check the weather?  James usually looked outside to check
the weather.

3\) The weather had often been nice and sunny.  Had the weather been
sunny?  Yes, the weather had often been nice and sunny.

4\) James usually decided to go to the beach.  What did James usually
decide to do?  James usually decided to go to the beach.

5\) The beach was about an hour away by car.  Where was the beach?  The
beach was about an hour away by car.
**B)**

6\) James first looks for his bathing suit.  What does James first look
for?  James first looks for his bathing suit

7\)  He often can’t find his bathing suit.  Can he always find his
bathing suit?  No, he often can’t find his bathing suit.

8\) Usually James finally finds his bathing suit in his closet. Where
does James finally find his bathing suit?  Usually James finally finds
his bathing suit in his closet.

9\) Sometimes, the weather has turned cloudy.  Is the weather always
nice and sunny?  No, the weather is not always nice and sunny.
 Sometimes, the weather has turned cloudy.

10\) James hopes to go to the beach tomorrow.  When does James hope to
go to the beach?  James hopes to go to the beach tomorrow.

*31*

**A)**

My friend moved far away.

She had asked me to come for dinner recently.

I was happy to visit my friend.

I bought a train ticket.

I traveled by train to see my friend.

My friend was very happy to see me.

My friend had been cooking a big dinner.

She had been cooking chicken, vegetables, and dessert.

But I was allergic to chicken.

So I only ate the vegetables, and dessert.

**B)
**Rosie’s friend lives far away.

She has asked Rosie to come for dinner.

Rosie is happy to visit her friend.

Rosie has already bought a train ticket.

She travels by train to see her friend.

Rosie’s friend is very happy to see her.

Rosie’s friend has been cooking a big dinner.

She has been cooking chicken, vegetables, and dessert.

But Rosie is allergic to chicken.

So Rosie only eats the vegetables, and dessert.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Rosie’s friend moved far away.  Does Rosie’s friend live close?  No
Rosie’s friend does not live close.  Rosie’s friend moved far away.

2\) Rosie’s friend had asked Rosie to come for dinner.  What had Rosie’s
friend asked?  Rosie’s friend had asked Rosie to come for dinner.

3\) Rosie was happy to visit her friend.  Was Rosie happy to visit her
friend?  Yes, Rosie was happy to visit her friend.

4\) Rosie bought a train ticket.  What did Rosie buy?  Rosie bought a
train ticket.

5\) Rosie traveled to see her friend.  Where did Rosie travel?  Rosie
traveled to see her friend.
**B)**

6\)  Rosie’s friend is very happy to see her.  Is Rosie’s friend happy?
 Yes, Rosie’s friend is very happy to see her.

7\) Rosie’s friend has been cooking a big dinner.  What has Rosie’s
friend been cooking?  Rosie’s friend has been cooking a big dinner.

8\) Rosie’s friend has been cooking chicken, vegetables, and dessert.
 Has Rosie’s friend been cooking beef?  No, Rosie’s friend has not been
cooking beef.  She has been cooking chicken, vegetables, and dessert.

9\)  Rosie is allergic to chicken.  Can Rosie eat chicken?  No, Rosie
can’t eat chicken.  She is allergic to chicken.

10\) Rosie only eats the vegetables and dessert.  What does Rosie eat?
 She only eats the vegetables and dessert, but not the chicken.

*32*

**A)**

Sara had been trying to make breakfast all morning.

Her son and husband had been waiting for breakfast, too.

Sara looked in the fridge.

But there hadn’t been much food.

Sara had seen eggs, bread, and milk.

So she decided to cook some eggs.

She boiled a pot of water

And she put three eggs into the water.

She also made tea for herself and her husband.

Her son had orange juice instead.

**B)**

I have been trying to make breakfast all morning.

My son and husband have been waiting for breakfast, too.

I looked in the fridge.

But there isn’t much food.

I saw eggs, bread, and milk.

So I have decided to cook some eggs.

I am boiling a pot of water

And I have put three eggs into the water.

I have also been making tea for myself and my husband.

My son is having orange juice instead.

**Questions:**

**A)
**1) Sara had been trying to make breakfast.  What has Sara been trying
to make?  Sara has been trying to make breakfast.

2\) Sara’s husband and son had been waiting for breakfast.  What had
Sara’s husband and son been waiting for?  They had also been waiting for
breakfast.

3\) There hadn’t been much food in the fridge.  Had there been much food
in the fridge?  No, there hadn’t been much food in the fridge.

4\) Sara had seen eggs, bread, and milk in the fridge.  What had Sara
seen in the fridge?  Sara had seen eggs, bread, and milk in the
fridge.
**B)**

5\) Sara has decided to cook some eggs.  What has Sara decided?  Sara
has decided to cook some eggs.

6\) Sara is boiling a pot of water, and has put three eggs into the
water.  What has Sara been doing?  Sara is boiling a pot of water, and
has put three eggs into the water.

7\) Sara has also been making tea for herself and her husband.  What
else has Sara been making?  Sara also also been making tea for herself
and her husband.

8\) Sara’s son is having orange juice. Is Sara’s son having tea?  No,
Sara’s son isn’t having tea.  He’s having orange juice.

*33*

**A)**

Eric was in class at university last week.

He had been listening to the professor.

But Eric had forgotten his textbook.

So he was confused by the class.

Eric had asked another classmate for help.

He’d asked to look at the classmate’s textbook.

Eric’s classmate had said he could look at his textbook.

Eric had said “thank you”, and had looked at the textbook.

He had tried to take notes about the class,

But then, Eric realized he’d forgotten a pen, too.

**B)**

I am in class at university right now.

I have been listening to the professor.

But I have forgotten my textbook.

So I am confused by the class.

I have asked another classmate for help.

I’ve asked to look at the classmate’s textbook.

My classmate has been letting me look at his textbook.

I said “thank you”, and have been looking at the textbook.

I have been trying to take notes about the class,

But then, I realized I’ve forgotten a pen, too.

**Questions:**

**A)
**1) Eric was in class at university.  Where was Eric?  Eric was in
class at university.

2\) Eric had been listening to the professor.  Who had Eric been
listening to?  He had been listening to the professor.

3\) Eric had forgotten his textbook.  What had Eric forgotten?  Eric had
forgotten his textbook.

4\) Eric was confused by the class.  What was Eric confused by?  Eric
was confused by the class.
**B)**

5\) He has asked another classmate for help, and has asked to look at
his classmate’s textbook.  What has Eric done?  He has asked another
classmate for help, and has asked to look at his classmate’s textbook.

6\) The classmate has been letting Eric look at his textbook.  Has the
classmate been letting Eric look at his textbook?  Yes, the classmate
has been letting Eric look at his textbook.

7\) Eric has been trying to take notes about the class.  What has Eric
been trying to do?  He has been trying to take notes about the class.

8\) Eric realized that he’d forgotten a pen, too.  What did Eric
realize?  Eric realized that he’d forgotten a pen, too.

*34*

**A)**

Tom was going for dinner with his friends.

They had to decide on a restaurant.

Tom has always liked Italian food the best.

But his friends have always liked Thai food more than Italian food.

Tom decided to have Thai food for the first time.

Tom and his friends got to the restaurant.

Tom’s friends like spicy food more than Tom does.

So they ordered some spicy Thai food.

Tom ordered a salad.

It was less spicy than his friends’ food.

**B)**

Recently I have been going for dinner with my friends a lot.

We have been deciding on restaurants.

I have always liked Italian food the best.

But my friends have always liked Thai food more than Italian food.

I’ve decided to have Thai food for the first time.

My friends and I get to the restaurant.

My friends like spicy food more than I do.

They order some spicy Thai food.

I have ordered a salad.

It’s less spicy than my friends’ food.

**Questions:**

**A)
**1) Tom was going for dinner with his friends.  What was Tom doing with
his friends?  He was going for dinner with his friends.

2\) They had to decide on a restaurant to go to.  What did they have to
decide?  They had to decide on a restaurant to go to.

3\) Tom has always liked Italian food the best.  What kind of food has
Tom always liked the best?  Tom has always liked Italian food the best.

4\) His friends have always liked Thai food more than Italian food.
 What kind of food has his friends always liked?  His friends have
always liked Thai food.
**B)**

5\) Tom has decided to have Thai food.  What has Tom decided to do?  Tom
has decided to have Thai food.

6\) Tom’s friends like spicy food more than Tom does.  Who likes spicy
food more, Tom or Tom’s friends?  Tom’s friends like spicy food more
than Tom does.

7\) Tom’s friends order some spicy Thai food.  What do Tom’s friends
order?  They order some spicy Thai food.

8\) Tom has ordered a salad.  What has Tom ordered at the restaurant?
 He has ordered a salad.

9\) Tom’s salad is less spicy than his friends’ food.  Which is less
spicy, Tom’s salad, or his friends’ food?  Tom’s salad is less spicy
than his friends’ food.

*35*

A\)

My son had never had a dog before.

Then, he got a dog named Max.

My son loved Max very much.

Max was a small, cute dog.

He had liked to run and play when he was a puppy.

My son and Max always played together.

Max liked to get dirty.

So my son often cleaned him and cut his long, dirty hair.
Max lived for a long time.
He had been 15 years old when he passed away.

B\)

I will be getting a dog next year.

My dog’s name will be Max.

I will love Max very much.

He will be a small, cute dog.

Max will run and play a lot when he is a puppy.

Max and I will always play together.

Max will probably be getting dirty a lot.

So I will clean him often and cut his long, dirty hair.
Max will live for a long time.
He’ll probably be around 15 years old when he passes away.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) The son had never had a dog before.  What had the son never had?  The
son had never had a dog before

2\) Then he got a dog named Max.  What is the dog’s name?   The dog’s
name is Max.

3\) Max was a small, cute dog.  Was Max a big dog?  No, Max was not a
big dog.  He was a small dog.

4\) Max had liked to run and play when he was a puppy. What had Max
liked to do?  Max had liked to run and play when he was a puppy.
**B)**

5\) Max and the son will always play together.  Will the son play with
Max?  Yes, the son and Max will always play together.

6\) Max will probably be getting dirty a lot.  What will Max be doing?
 Max will probably be getting dirty a lot.

7\) The son will clean Max often.  Will the son’s Mom be cleaning Max?
 No, she won’t be.  The son will clean Max often.

*36*

A\)

Our neighbour Phil had had a big family when he was young.

He’d had a wife, and three children.

He’d had two sons and a daughter.

He’d also had a brother and a sister.

But Phil hadn’t talked to his brother in a long time.

They’d lived too far away from each other after Phil moved.

Phil’s brother had been a doctor before.

And Phil’s sister had been a dentist.

Phil was an actor in movies and on TV.

He was very different from his brother and sister.

B\)

I have a big family.

I have a wife, and three children.

I have two sons and a daughter.

I also have a brother and a sister.

But I won’t be talking to my brother for a long time.

We’ll be living very far away from each other after I move.

My brother will start training to be a doctor.

And my sister will start studying to be a dentist.

I am an actor in movies and on TV.

I am very different from my brother and sister.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Phil had had a big family when he was young.  Had Phil had a big
family?  Yes, Phil had had a big family when he was young.

2\) Phil had had three children.  Had Phil had two children?  No, Phil
hadn’t had two children.  He had had three children.

3\) Phil had also had a brother and a sister.  Had Phil had a sister?
 Yes, Phil had had a brother and a sister.

4\) Phil hadn’t talked to his brother in a long time.  Had Phil talked
to his brother recently?  No, Phil hadn’t talked to his brother in a
long time.
**B)**

5\) Phil and his brother will be living very far away from each other.
 Where will Phil and his brother be living?   They will be living very
far away from each other.

6\) Phil’s brother will start training to be a doctor.  What will Phil’s
brother start doing?  Phil’s brother will start training to be a doctor.

7\) Phil’s sister will start studying to be a dentist.  What will Phil’s
sister start studying to be? Phil’s sister will start studying to be a
dentist.

8\) Phil is an actor in movies and on TV.  What does Phil do?  Phil is
an actor in movies and on TV.

9\) Phil is very different from his brother and sister.  Is Phil be the
same as his brother and sister?  No, Phil is not be the same.  He is
very different from his brother and sister.

*37*

**A)**

Adam had been feeling very stressed out before he came to work today.

He’d had a very busy schedule this week.

On Monday, he’d had to call many clients

before going to a meeting.

Then, he’d had to go to another office

before having lunch with his boss.

On Friday, he’d had to do a presentation.

before working late in the evening.

This morning, though, Adam’s schedule is lighter.   

He hasn’t had a light schedule in a long time.  

**B)**

I am feeling very stressed out before going to work today.

I’ll have a very busy schedule this week.

Today, I’ll be calling many clients

while also sitting in a meeting.

Then, I’ll be going to another office

before having lunch with my boss.

On Friday, I’ll be doing a presentation

before working late in the evening.

This morning, I wish my schedule was lighter.

I haven’t had a light schedule in a long time.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Adam had been feeling very stressed out before he came to work today.
 How had Adam been feeling before he came to work?  Adam had been
feeling very stressed out before he came to work today.

2\) He’d had to call many clients on Monday.  What had he had to do on
Monday? He’d had to call many clients Monday.

3\) He’d had to go to a meeting after he’d called the clients.  What had
he had to do after he’d called the clients?  He’d had to go to a meeting
after he’d called the clients.

4\) Then, Adam had had to go to another office.  When had Adam had to go
to another office?  He had had to go to another office then.
**B)**

5\) He’ll be going to lunch with his boss after he goes to another
office.  When will he be going to lunch with his boss?  He’ll be going
to lunch with his boss after he goes to another office.

6\) Adam’ll be doing a presentation on Friday.  When will Adam be doing
a presentation?  Adam will be doing a presentation on Friday.

7\) Adam will be working late in the evening on Friday.  What else will
he be doing on Friday?  Adam will be working late in the evening on
Friday.

8\) Adam hasn’t had a light schedule in a long time.  What hasn’t Adam
had in a long time?  Adam hasn’t had a light schedule in a long time.

*38*

Now a story about two friends, Sasha and Jen.

**A)**

Sasha and Jen had been friends during high school.

They’d usually watched movies and listened to music together.

Sasha’s favourite actor then had been tall and handsome.

He’d been in many movies, and had been very popular.

Jen’s favourite actor had also been very popular at the time.

And Jen had thought he was the most handsome actor.

Sasha hadn’t agreed with Jen.

She’d thought her favourite actor was more handsome than Jen’s.

Sasha and Jen had talked about this every day at school.

They had wanted to meet a famous person one day.

Now Sasha tells the story.

**B)**

Jen and I are friends in high school.

We usually watch movies and listen to music together.

My favourite actor now is tall and handsome.

He will keep being in many movies, and will stay very popular.

Jen’s favourite actor is also very popular.

And she thinks he is the most handsome actor.

I don’t agree with Jen.

I will keep thinking my favourite actor is more handsome than Jen’s.

We’ll keep talking about this every day at school.

We’ll always be wanting to meet a famous person one day.

Now some questions. See if you can answer with me, or you can just
listen.

**A)**
1) Jen and Sasha had been friends during high school.  When had Jen and
Sasha been friends?  They had been friends during high school.

2\) They’d usually watched movies and listened to music together.  What
had they usually done together?  They had usually watched movies and
listened to music.

3\) Sasha’s favourite actor had been tall and handsome.  What had
Sasha’s favourite actor looked like?  Her favourite actor had been tall
and handsome.

4\) Sasha’s favourite actor had been very popular because he had been in
many movies.  How popular had Sasha’s favourite actor been?  He had been
very popular. He’d been in many movies.
**B)**

5\) Jen thinks her favourite actor is the most handsome.  Which actor
does Jen think is the most handsome?  Jen thinks her favourite actor is
the most handsome.

6\) Sasha will keep thinking her favourite actor is more handsome than
Jen’s favourite.

Which actor will Sasha keep thinking is more handsome than Jen’s
favourite?  Sasha will keep thinking her favourite actor is more
handsome than Jen’s favourite.

7\) Sasha and Jen will keep talking about their favourite actors every
day.  How often will Sasha and Jen keep talking about their favourite
actors?  They will keep talking about their favourite actors every day.

8\) They’ll always be wanting to meet a famous person one day.  What
will they always be wanting to do one day?  They’ll always be wanting to
meet a famous person one day.  

And that was the story of friends Sasha and Jen.

*39*

**A)**

Adrian’s favourite singer had a concert last month.

Adrian had wanted to go to the concert.

He would have had to buy tickets so he could go.

He’d started looking for tickets online

But there had only been a few tickets left.

Many tickets had already been sold.

Adrian had almost chosen the best seat ticket left.

But the seat was a little too far from the stage.

Adrian decided it wasn’t good enough.

He decided to try again next time.    

**B)**

My favourite singer will be having a concert next month.

My friend will be wanting to go to the concert.

I’ll be buying tickets tomorrow so I can go to the concert, too.

I’ll start looking for tickets online.

But I’m sure there will only be a few tickets left.

Many tickets will already be sold.

Tomorrow, I’ll be choosing the best seat ticket that’s left.

The seat will probably be a little too far from the stage

But I think it’ll be good enough.

I’ll just be happy I got a ticket.

**Questions:**
**A)**
1) Adrian’s favourite singer had a concert.  Who had a concert?
 Adrian’s favourite singer had a concert.

2\) Adrian had wanted to go to the concert.  Where had Adrian wanted to
go?  Adrian had wanted to go to the concert.

3\) Adrian would have had to buy tickets so he could go.  What would
Adrian have had to do? He would have had to buy tickets so he could go.

4\) He’d started looking for tickets online.  Where had he started
looking for tickets?  He’d started looking for tickets online.
**B)**

5\) There will only be a few tickets left because many tickets are
already sold.  How many tickets will be left?  There will only be a few
tickets left.  Many tickets are already sold.

6\) Adrian will be choosing the best seat ticket that’s left.  Which
seat ticket will Adrian be choosing?  He will be choosing the best seat
ticket that’s left.

7\) The seat will probably be a little too far from the stage.  Where
will the seat be?  The seat will probably be a little too far from the
stage.

8\) Adrian thinks the ticket will be good enough. How does Adrian feel
about the ticket?  He thinks the ticket will be good enough.  

*40*

This is a story about Sharon and her family.

**A)**

Sharon has many people in her family.

She has a brother, a sister, and many cousins.

Sharon’s brother is older than her.

He is also louder and funnier than Sharon.

Sharon’s sister is younger than her.

Sharon’s sister is also shorter and more outgoing.

Sharon’s sister likes talking to people more than Sharon.

Although Sharon has many older cousins,
she doesn’t know them very well.

They live farther away than her brother and sister.

Now Sharon tells the story.

**B)**

I have many people in my family.

I have a brother, a sister, and many cousins.

My brother is older than me.

He is louder and funnier than me.

My sister is younger than me.

My sister is also shorter and more outgoing.

My sister likes talking to people more than me.

Although I have many older cousins,

I don’t know them very well.

They live farther away than my brother and sister.

I’ll now ask some questions. You can answer or just listen if you
prefer.

**A)**
1) Sharon has many people in her family.  Does Sharon have a big family?
 Yes, Sharon has many people in her family.

2\) Sharon has one brother.  How many brothers does Sharon have?  She
has one brother.

3\) Sharon’s brother is older than her.  Who is older, Sharon or her
brother?  Sharon’s brother is older than her.

4\) Sharon’s brother is louder than her.  Which person is louder, Sharon
or her brother?  Sharon’s brother is louder than her.
**B)**

5\) Sharon’s sister is younger than her. Who is younger, Sharon or her
sister?  Sharon’s sister is younger than her.

6\) Sharon’s sister is more outgoing than Sharon, so she likes talking
to people more than her.

Which person likes talking to people more, Sharon or her sister?
 Sharon’s sister is more outgoing than Sharon, so she likes talking to
people more than her.

7\) Sharon has many older cousins.  Does Sharon have a few cousins?  No,
Sharon has many older cousins.

8\) Sharon’s brother and sister live closer than her cousins. Who lives
closer, Sharon’s cousins, or her brother and sister?  Sharon’s brother
and sister live closer than her cousins.

And that was Sharon’s story.

*41*

(at a restaurant; prices and quantities)

**A)**

Allen is at a restaurant with his friend.

It’s their first time at this restaurant, and

they are deciding what to eat.

Allen wants to order three different dishes
since he wants to try the new items on the menu.
But if he orders a lot of food,
he will have to pay more than his friend.
Allen’s friend is not very hungry, therefore
Allen’s friend only orders a few small dishes.
So Allen decides to only get a few small dishes as well.

**B)**

I was at a restaurant with my friend.

It was our first time at that restaurant and

we were deciding what to eat.

I wanted to order three different dishes
since I wanted to try the new items on the menu.
But if I ordered a lot of food,
I would have had to pay more than my friend.
My friend was not very hungry, therefore

my friend only ordered a few small dishes.
So I decided to only get a few small dishes as well.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Allen is at the restaurant with his friend.  Who is Allen at the
restaurant with?  Allen is at the restaurant with his friend.

2\) Allen and his friend are deciding what to eat at the restaurant.
What are Allen and his friend doing?  They are deciding what to eat at
the restaurant.
3) Allen’s friend was not very hungry.  Was Allen’s friend very hungry?
 No he wasn’t.  Allen’s friend was not very hungry.
4) Allen’s friend only orders a few small dishes.  How much food does
Allen’s friend order?  Allen’s friend only orders a few small dishes.

**B)**

5\) It was the first time Allen and his friend went to the restaurant.
Had Allen and his friend been to the restaurant before?  No, it was
their first time there.

6\) Allen wanted to order three different dishes of food.  How much food
did Allen want to order?  Allen wanted to order three different dishes
of food.

7\) If Allen ordered lots of food, he would have had to pay more than
his friend.  What would have happened if Allen had ordered lots of food?
 He would have had to pay more than his friend.

8\) Allen decided to only get a few small dishes as well.  What did
Allen decide to get as well?  Allen decided to only get a few small
dishes, as well.

*42*

(which one, what kind, most; comparatives; ‘ask’, ‘said’;
past and present continuous)

Next a story about Erika, who is buying a dog.

**A)**

Erika wants to buy a new dog.

She is looking at dogs in a pet store.

She asks the store clerk some questions.

She asks, “What kind of dog is the friendliest?”

The store clerk says, “That one”

And he points to the smallest dog.

Erika asks, “Which dog is the smartest?”

The clerks points to the same dog again.

Erika thinks that dog is the best.

She decides to buy it.

She hopes her other pets will like the new dog.

Now the same story told by Erika.

**B)**

My sister wanted to buy a new dog.

She was looking at dogs in a pet store.

She asked the store clerk some questions.

She asked, “What kind of dog is the friendliest?”

The store clerk said, “That one”

And he pointed to the smallest dog.

My sister asked, “Which dog is the smartest?”

The clerk pointed to the same dog again.

My sister thought that dog was the best.

She decided to buy it.

She hoped her other pets would like the new dog.

Now some questions about the story.

**A)**
1) Erika wants to buy a new dog.  What does Erika want to buy?  Erika
wants to buy a new dog.

2\) The store clerk says the smallest dog is the friendliest one.
Which one is the friendliest dog? The store clerk says the smallest dog
is the friendliest one.
3) Erika thinks the smallest, friendliest, smartest dog is the best one.

Which one does Erika think is the best?  Erika thinks the smallest,
friendliest, smartest dog is the best one.

4\) Erika hopes her other pets will like the new dog.  What does Erika
hope?  She hopes her other pets will like the new dog.
**B)**
5) She was looking at dogs in a pet store.  Where was she looking at
dogs?  She was looking at dogs in a pet store.
6) She asked the store clerk, “What kind of dog is the friendliest?”
 What did she ask the store clerk?  She asked the store clerk, “What
kind of dog is the friendliest?”

7\) The smallest dog is also the smartest one.  Which one is the
smartest?  The smallest dog is also the smartest one.

8\) The sister decided to buy the one she liked the best.  Which dog did
she decide to buy?  She decided to buy the one she liked the best.

And that was the story of Erika buying a new dog.

*43*

(words of quantity like all, any, little; could, should;
 although) – organizing schedule

**A)**

Ben is looking at his schedule for school.

He has a very busy schedule.

All of his classes are ninety minutes long.

And all of his weekdays are full.

He doesn’t have much free time in the evenings,

and he doesn’t have any free time on Mondays.

He doesn’t have any classes on weekends, though,

so he should have a little time to see his friends then.

Although he still has a little time for himself,

most of his time is going to be for studying.

**B)**

I was looking at my schedule for school.

I had a very busy schedule.

All of my classes were ninety minutes long.

And all of my weekdays were full.

I didn’t have much free time in the evenings,

and I didn’t have any free time on Mondays.

I didn’t have any classes on weekends, though,

so I could have a little time to see my friends then.

Although I still had a little time for myself,

most of my time was going to be for studying.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Ben is looking at his school schedule.  What is Ben looking at?  Ben
is looking at his school schedule.

2\) All of his classes are ninety minutes long.  How long are all of his
classes?  All of his classes are ninety minutes long.

3\) Ben doesn’t have much free time in the evenings.  How much free time
does Ben have in the evenings?  Ben doesn’t have much free time in the
evenings.

4\) Ben doesn’t have any classes on weekends.  Does Ben have any classes
on weekends?  No, Ben doesn’t have any classes on weekends.
**B)**
5) His schedule was very busy.  How busy was his schedule?  His schedule
was very busy.

6\) All of Ben’s weekdays were full.  How many of Ben’s weekdays were
full?  All of Ben’s weekdays were full.

7\) Ben didn’t have any free time on Mondays.  How much free time did
Ben have on Mondays?  Ben didn’t have any free time on Mondays.

8\) Ben could have a little time to see his friends.  Did Ben have any
time to see his friends?  Yes, Ben could have a little time to see his
friends.

*44*

(all, any, little; before, always, never sometimes;
instead, get, if...)

**A)**

Martin lives alone in a small apartment.

He has to do all the housework alone.

But he works a lot, so he never has time to clean.

His laundry and dishes are always dirty.

Today, he is trying to get dressed for work.

But he doesn’t have any clean socks.

He only has a little time before work starts.

He could try to wash them.

He realizes that if he goes to a store before work,

he could buy some new socks.

Instead, he decides to trying washing all his clothes after work today.

**B)**

I lived alone in a small apartment.

I had to do all the housework alone.

But I worked a lot, so I never had time to clean.

My laundry and dishes were always dirty.

Today, I was trying to get dressed for work.

But I didn’t have any clean socks.

I only had a little time before work started.

I realized that if I went to a store before work,

I could buy some new socks.

Instead, I decided to trying washing my clothes after work today.

**Questions:**

**A)**
1) Martin lives alone in a small apartment.  Does Martin live with
someone?  No, Martin doesn’t live with anyone.  He lives alone in a
small apartment.

2\) Martin never has any time to clean.  Does Martin ever have time to
clean?  No, Martin never has any time to clean.

3\) Martin is trying to get dressed for work.  What is Martin trying to
do?  Martin is trying to get dressed for work.

4\) Martin only has a little time before work starts.  How much time
does Martin have before work starts?  He only has a little time before
work starts.
**B)**
5) Martin had to do all the housework.  How much housework did Martin
have to do?  Martin had to do all the housework.

6\) Martin’s laundry and dishes were always dirty.  What were always
dirty?  Martin’s laundry and dishes were always dirty.

7\) Martin didn’t have any clean socks to wear to work.  What didn’t
Martin have?  He didn’t have any clean socks to wear to work.

8\) Martin thought of going to the store before work started.  When did
Martin think of going to the store? Martin thought of going to the store
before work started.

**
**

*45*

(map directions, ‘if’, modals, continuous tenses, ‘thinks’
and ‘said’, phrasal verbs)

**A)**
Tony has been hiking in the mountains for three days.
He’s had to stop to look at his map.
He should have been going West,
but he doesn’t recognize anything on the map.
If he had been going West, he should have come to a lake by now.
He thinks he might have been going North instead.

He would like to use his phone map to check,

but the hiking brochure said there would be no reception in the
mountains.

Tony decides to set up camp for the night.

Maybe if he gets some sleep, he’ll be able to figure it out tomorrow.

**B)**
I had been hiking in the mountains for three days
when I had to stop to look at my map.
I should have been going West,
but I didn’t recognize anything on the map.
If I had been going West, I should have come to a lake by now.
I thought I might have been going North instead.

I would have liked to have used my phone map to check,

but the hiking brochure had said there would be no reception in the
mountains.

I decided to set up camp for the night.

Maybe if I got some sleep, I’d be able to figure it out tomorrow.

**Questions
A:
**1) Tony has been hiking in the mountains for three days.  How long has
Tony been hiking for?  Tony has been hiking in the mountains for three
days.
2) He’s had to stop to look at his map. Why has he had to stop? He’s had
to stop to look at his map.
3) He should have been going West.  Which direction should he have been
going? He should have been going West.
4) If he had been going West, he should have come to a lake by now. What
should have happened if he’d been going West?  He should have come to a
lake if he’d been going West.

**B)**
5) I thought I might have been going North instead.  What direction did
you think you might have been going? I thought I might have been going
North instead.

6\) I would have liked to use my phone map to check, but the hiking
brochure had said there would be no reception in the mountains.  Why
weren’t you able to use your phone map?  Because the hiking brochure had
said there would be no reception.

7\) I decided to set up camp for the night.  What did you decide to do?
I decided to set up camp for the night.

8\) Maybe if I got some sleep, I would be able to figure it out
tomorrow. If you got some sleep, when would you be able to figure it
out?  If I got some sleep, I would be able to figure it out tomorrow.

*46*

A\)

Lin will be catching a flight to L.A. tonight.

She has an important sales presentation to give there.

She is very nervous about it, since

this will be her first time speaking in front of a large audience.

Her boss told her it was very important that she do a good job.

He said that the success of the new product depended on her.

Lin doesn’t like this kind of pressure.

She’s worried that she will get fired if she makes a mistake.

Nevertheless, she’s trying to think positively.

Maybe if she does well, she will get promoted instead.

B\)

I am catching a flight to L.A. tonight.

I have an important sales presentation to give there.

I am very nervous about it, since

this is going to be my first time speaking in front of a large audience.

My boss told me it’s very important that I do a good job.

He said that the success of the new product depends on me.

I don’t like this kind of pressure.

I’m worried I’ll get fired if I make a mistake.

Nevertheless, I’m trying to think positively.

Maybe if I do well, I’ll get promoted instead.

Questions

A\)

1\) Lin will be catching a flight to L.A. tonight. When will Lin be
catching a flight? Lin will be catching a flight to L.A. tonight.

2\) She has an important sales presentation to give there. What will she
be doing there? She has an important sales presentation to give there.

3\) She is very nervous about it, since this will be her first time
speaking in front of a large audience. Why is she very nervous? Because
this will be her first time speaking in front of a large audience.

4\) Her boss told her it’s very important that she do a good job. What
did her boss tell her? Her boss told her it’s very important that she do
a good job.

B\)

5\) He said that the success of the new product depends on me. What did
he say? He said that the success of the new product depends on me.

6\) I’m worried I’ll get fired if I make a mistake. What are you worried
about? I’m worried I’ll get fired if I make a mistake.

7\) Nevertheless, I’m trying to think positively. How are you trying to
think? I’m trying to think positively.

8\) Maybe if I do well, I’ll get promoted instead. What might happen if
you do well? Maybe if I do well, I’ll get promoted instead.

*47*

A\)

Jessica recently started a new job.

She’s been enjoying the work very much, although

she’s been having some problems with her boss.

During meetings, if she tries to say something,

the boss won’t let her talk.

She wishes he would give her more of a chance to speak,

and she would like it if he cared more about her opinions.

She hopes she’ll be able to solve this problem.

She could look for a new job again, but overall

she thinks it’ll be better if she stays with this one.

B\)

I started a new job last year.

At first, I’d been enjoying the work very much, although

I’d been having some problems with my boss.

During meetings, if I tried to say something,

the boss wouldn’t let me talk.

I wished he would give me more of a chance to speak,

and I would have liked it if he cared more about my opinions.

I had hoped I would be able to solve this problem.

I could have looked for a new job again, but overall

I thought it would be better if I stayed with this one.

Questions

A\)

1\) Jessica recently started a new job. What did Jessica recently do?
Jessica recently started a new job.

2\) She’s been enjoying the work very much. Has she been enjoying the
work? Yes, she’s been enjoying the work very much.

3\) She’s been having some problems with her boss. Who has she been
having problems with? She’s been having some problems with her boss.

4\) During meetings, if she tries to say something, the boss won’t let
her talk. What happens during meetings? During meetings, if she tries to
say something, the boss won’t let her talk.

B\)

5\) I wished he would give me more of a chance to speak. What did you
wish? I wished he would give me more of a chance to speak.

6\) I would have liked it if he cared more about my opinions. What would
you have liked? I would have liked it if he cared more about my
opinions.

7\) I hoped I would be able to solve this problem. What did you hope? I
hoped I’d be able to solve this problem.

8\) I could have looked for a new job again, but overall I thought it
would be better if I stayed with this one. Why didn’t you look for a new
job? Because overall I thought it would be better if I stayed with this
one.

*48*

A\)

My parents told me that I have to go to university.

They said that if I get a degree, I will be able to get a good job.

However, my friend recently told me about online courses.

She said I ought to study my favourite topics online.

If I do that, I can save a lot of money.

Now, I’m not sure what I should do.

If I go to university, I can get a degree.

On the other hand, if I study online, I can learn the same material much
more cheaply.

I might have to give both of them a try.

If I try both, I should then be able to make up my mind.

B\)

Your parents told you that you have to go to university.

They said that if you get a degree, you will be able to get a good job.

However, your friend recently told you about online courses.

She said, “ You ought to study your favourite topics online.”

“If you do that, you can save a lot of money.”

Now, you’re not sure what you should do.

If you go to university, you can get a degree.

On the other hand, if you study online, you can learn the same material
for much less.

You might have to give both of them a try.

If you try both, you should then be able to make up your mind.

Questions

A\)

1\) My parents told me I have to go to university. What did your parents
tell you? My parents told me I have to go to university.

2\) They said if I get a degree, I will be able to get a good job. What
did they say you’d be able to get? They said if I get a degree, I will
be able to get a good job.

3\) However, my friend recently told me about online courses. What did
your friend tell you about? My friend recently told me about online
courses.

4\) She said I ought to study my favourite topics online. What did she
say you ought to do? She said I ought to study my favourite topics
online.

B\)

5\) If you go to university, you can get a degree. What can you do if
you go to university? If you go to university, you can get a degree.

6\) If you study online, you can learn the same material much more
cheaply. Where can you learn the same material for much less? If you
study online, you can learn the same material much more cheaply, for
much less.

7\) You might have to give both of them a try. What might you have to
try? I might have to give both of them a try.

8\) If you try both, you should then be able to make up your mind. What
might happen if you try both? If you try both,you should then be able to
make up your mind.

*49*

A\)

I’ve been trying to go to sleep for two hours.

But I haven’t been able to close my eyes.

I’ve been thinking about today.

It was my first day at the new job.

I keep wondering if I did a good job.

I’m wondering if I can get along with my co-workers.

The recruiter said I was very qualified for the job.

If that’s true, I feel like the first day should have been easier.

I am thinking maybe I should write some of these feelings down.

If I do, perhaps I’ll be able to get some sleep.

B\)

You’d been trying to go to sleep for two hours.

But you hadn’t been able to close your eyes.

You’d been thinking about today.

It was your first day at the new job.

You kept wondering if you did a good job.

You were wondering if you were going to be able to get along with your
co-workers.

The recruiter had said you were very qualified for the job.

If that were true, you feel like the first day should have been easier.

You thought you should write some of these feelings down.

If you did, perhaps you would be able to get some sleep.

Questions:

A\)

1\) I’ve been trying to go to sleep for two hours. How long have you
been trying to go to sleep? I’ve been trying to go to sleep for two
hours.

2\) I haven’t been able to close my eyes. What haven’t you been able to
do? I haven’t been able to close my eyes.

3\) I’ve been thinking about today. What have you been thinking about?
I’ve been thinking about today.

4\) I keep wondering if I did a good job. What do you keep wondering
about? I keep wondering if I did a good job.

B\)

5\) You’re wondering if you can get along with your co-workers. Who are
you wondering about getting along with? You’re wondering if you can get
along with your co-workers.

6\) The recruiter said you were very qualified for the job. Who said you
were very qualified? The recruiter said you were very qualified for the
job.

7\) You feel like the first day should have been easier. How do you
think the first day should have felt? You feel like the first day should
have been easier.

8\) You thought you should write some of these feelings down. What did
you think you should do? You thought you should write some of these
feelings down.

*50*

A\)

Marty has been organizing his university schedule.

He intends to graduate at the end of this year.

Therefore, he has to select the appropriate number of classes

in order to meet the requirements for his degree.

One class he has selected is Sociology.

Marty is majoring in Humanities.

However, even though Sociology is a science class,

Marty must take it to meet the degree requirements.

He’s not sure why this is necessary.

He hopes Sociology class won’t be too boring.

B\)

The students have been organizing their university schedules.

They intend to graduate at the end of this year.

Therefore, they have to select the appropriate number of classes

in order to meet the requirements for their degrees.

One class they have selected is Sociology.

The students are majoring in Humanities.

However, even though Sociology is a science class,

The students must take it to meet the degree requirements.

They’re not sure why this is necessary.

They hope Sociology class won’t be too boring.

Questions

A\)

1\) Marty has been organizing his university schedule. What has Marty
been organizing? Marty has been organizing his university schedule.

2\) He intends to graduate at the end of this year. When does he intend
to graduate? He intends to graduate at the end of this year.

3\) Therefore, he has to select the appropriate number of classes. How
many classes does he have to select? He has to select the appropriate
number of classes.

4\) One class he has selected is Sociology. What is one class he has he
selected? One class he has selected is Sociology.

B\)

5\) The students are majoring in Humanities. What are the students
doing? The students are majoring in Humanities.

6\) The students must take Sociology to meet the degree requirements.
Why must the students take Sociology? The students must take Sociology
to meet the degree requirements.

7\) They’re not sure why this is necessary. Do the students understand
why this is necessary? No, they’re not sure why this is necessary.

8\) They hope Sociology class won’t be too boring. Do they want
Sociology class to be boring? No, they hope Sociology class won’t be too
boring.

*51*

A\)

Kevin has been looking for a new mp3 player.

He has looked in many stores in the area where he lives,

yet he’s been unable to find anything affordable.

So then Kevin decided to look online instead.

Even though he doesn’t really trust online shopping,

he hoped that online products would be more affordable.

After searching and scrolling for a few hours,

Kevin found an mp3 player that he liked.

It was about half the price of the others, so he bought it.

He hopes it will last a long time.

B\)

My kids have been looking for a new mp3 player.

They’ve looked in many stores in the area where we live,

but nevertheless have been unable to find an affordable one.

They decided to look online instead.

Even though I don’t really trust online shopping,

I was hoping that the online stores would be more affordable.

After searching and scrolling for a few hours,

they found an mp3 player that they liked.

It’s about half the price of the others, so they bought it.

I hope it’ll last them a long time.

Questions

A\)

1\) Kevin has been looking for a new mp3 player. What has Kevin been
looking for? Kevin has been looking for a new mp3 player.

2\) He has looked in many stores in the area where he lives. Where has
he looked? He has looked in many stores in the area where he lives.

3\) Nonetheless, he’s been unable to find an affordable one. Has he been
able to find an affordable one? No, he’s been unable to find an
affordable one.

4\) Kevin has decided to look online instead. Where has Kevin decided to
look instead? Kevin has decided to look online instead.

B\)

5\) Even though they don’t really trust online shopping, they hope
online stores will be more affordable. Do they trust online shopping?
No, they don’t really trust online shopping.

6\) After searching and scrolling for a few hours, they found an mp3
player that they like. How long did they search and scroll online? A few
hours. They found an mp3 player that they liked after searching and
scrolling for a few hours.

7\) It’s about half the price of the others, so they bought it. Why did
they buy it? Because it’s about half the price of the others.

8\) They hope it won’t break easily, and will last a long time. What do
they hope won’t happen? They hope it won’t break easily, and last them a
long time.

*52*

The next story is about a woman who has become a grandmother.

A\)

My granddaughter just had a baby!

She brought her baby son to our house today

so we could meet him for the first time.

I had forgotten how tiny babies could be.

He had tiny fingers and toes,

and he didn’t cry very much while he was visiting.

We took turns holding and carrying him,

and I even helped change his diaper once.

In that moment, I felt happy to be an older woman with adult children.

I don’t miss changing my daughter’s diaper at all.

Now the same story told differently.

B\)

My grandson’s wife just had a baby!

They brought their baby son to our house today

so we could meet him for the first time.

We had forgotten how tiny babies could be.

He had tiny fingers and toes,

and he didn’t cry very much while he was visiting.

We took turns holding and carrying him,

and we even helped change his diaper once.

In that moment, we felt happy to be older parents with adult children.

We don’t miss changing my daughter’s diaper at all.

I will read some questions about the story now. Answer out loud if you
would like.

Questions

A\)

1\) Her granddaughter just had a baby! Who just had a baby? Her
granddaughter just had a baby!

2\) She brought her baby son to their house today. Where did she bring
her baby son? She brought her baby son to their house.

3\) She brought her baby son to their house today so they could meet him
for the first time. Why did she bring her baby son? So they could meet
him for the first time.

4\) She had forgotten how tiny babies could be. What had she forgotten?
She had forgotten how tiny babies could be.

B\)

5\) He didn’t cry very much while he was visiting. Did he cry much while
visiting? No, he didn’t cry very much while he was visiting.

6\) They took turns holding and carrying him. Did just one person carry
him? No, we took turns holding and carrying him.

7\) They even helped change his diaper once. What else did they help
with? They even helped change his diaper once.

8\) They don’t miss changing their daughter’s diaper at all. What don’t
they miss at all? They don’t miss changing their daughter’s diaper at
all.

*53*

This story is about Kendra, a woman preparing for a wrestling
competition.

A\)

Kendra’s been on a wrestling team for about fifteen years.

Today, her coach told her there is a competition coming up.

He wants her to compete in a lower weight class.

As a result, Kendra will have to change her diet.

She will also have to start going to to the gym more.

Kendra has always loved wrestling.

However, it’s gotten more difficult as she’s gotten older.

She doesn’t have as much time as she used to.

And she doesn’t lose weight as easily as she used to.

Nonetheless, Kendra will find a way to compete.

Now Kendra’s friend is in the story.

B\)

Kendra and her friend have been on a wrestling team for about fifteen
years.

Today, their coach told them there is a competition coming up.

He wants them to compete in a lower weight class.

As a result, Kendra and her friend will have to change their diet.

They will also have to start going to to the gym more.

The girls have always loved wrestling.

However, it’s gotten more difficult as they’ve gotten older.

They don’t have as much time as they used to.

And they don’t lose weight as easily as they used to.

Nonetheless, Kendra and her friend will find a way to compete.

Next some questions about the story.

Questions

A\)

1\) Kendra’s been on a wrestling team for about fifteen years. How long
has Kendra been on a wrestling team? Kendra’s been on a wrestling team
for about fifteen years.

2\) Today, her coach told her there is a competition coming up. When is
there a competition? There is a competition coming up.

3\) He wants her to compete in a lower weight class. How does he want
her to compete? He wants her to compete in a lower weight class.

4\) As a result, Kendra will have to change her diet. What will Kendra
have to do as a result? She will have to change her diet.

B\)

5\) The girls have always loved wrestling. Have the girls always loved
wrestling? Yes, the girls have always loved wrestling.

6\) It’s gotten more difficult as they’ve gotten older. Since when has
it gotten more difficult? It’s gotten more difficult as they’ve gotten
older.

7\) They don’t have as much time as they used to. Did they used to have
more time? Yes, they don’t have as much time as they used to.

8\) Nonetheless, Kendra and her friend will find a way to compete. Will
Kendra and her friend find a way to compete? Yes, nonetheless, Kendra
and her friend will find a way to compete.

*54*

This is the story of Mariah who is stranded at the park.

A\)

Mariah is stranded at the park.

She’d gone to a summer music festival there,

but it had ended later than she’d expected.

Now, the buses have stopped running,

and there are hundreds of people trying to leave at once.

Mariah has requested an Uber driver on her phone.

She’s never used Uber before, and hopes it’s safe.

She’s watching the car approaching on her phone screen.

It seems to be moving very slowly.

Next time, she’ll leave before the buses stop running.

Now Mariah’s friend Paul is in the story.

B\)

Mariah and Paul are stranded at the park.

They’d gone to a summer music festival there,

but it had ended later than they’d expected.

Now, the buses have stopped running,

and there are hundreds of people trying to leave at once.

Mariah and Paul have requested an Uber driver on their phone.

They’ve never used Uber before, and hope it’s safe.

They’re watching the car approaching on the phone screen.

It seems to be moving very slowly.

Next time, they’ll leave before the buses stop running.

Next I will read some questions about the story. You can answer them
with me, or just listen along.

Questions

A\)

1\) Mariah is stranded at the park. Where is Mariah stranded? Mariah is
stranded at the park..

2\) She’d gone to a summer music festival there. Why was she there?
Because she’d gone to a summer music festival there.

3\) Now the buses have stopped running. Are the buses still running? No,
the buses have stopped running.

4\) There are hundreds of people trying to leave at once. How many
people are trying to leave at once? There are hundreds of people trying
to leave at once.

B\)

5\) Mariah and Paul have requested an Uber driver. What has Mariah and
Paul requested? They have requested an Uber driver.

6\) They’ve never used Uber before, and hope it’s safe. Have they ever
used Uber before? No, they have never used Uber before.

7\) They’re watching the car approaching on the phone screen. How are
they watching the car approach? They’re watching the car approaching on
the phone screen.

8\) Next time, they’ll leave before the buses stop running. What will
they do next time? Next time, they’ll leave before the buses stop
running.

*55*

A\)

Sally and George would like to buy a new home because their two children
are growing older.

Unfortunately, it has become difficult to buy a new home because the
cost of housing has risen faster than people’s incomes.

In order to be able to buy a new home, they have been saving money for
years.

If they want to buy a single family house, they would have to live far
from the city. This would mean a long commute to their jobs for both of
them.

They looked at apartments but these were either too small or in
neighbourhoods they didn’t like.

They realize that even though they both work hard and don’t spend money
unwisely, they still can’t afford the home that they want.

They thought, at one point, of renting a home, but really felt they
wanted to own their own home.

Finally they decided to move to a smaller town. They felt they could
live a simpler life there and enjoy a better family life.

B\)

We had wanted to buy a new home because our two children had grown
older.

Unfortunately, it had become difficult to buy a new home because the
cost of housing had risen faster than our incomes.

In order to be able to buy a new home, we had been saving money for
years.

If we had wanted to buy a single family house, we would have had to live
far from the city. This would have meant a long commute to our jobs for
both of us.

We had looked at apartments but these were either too small or in
neighbourhoods we didn’t like.

We realized that even though we both worked hard and didn’t spend money
unwisely, we still couldn’t afford the home that we wanted.

We had thought, at one point, of renting a home, but really felt we
preferred to own our own home.

Finally we decided to move to a smaller town. We felt we could live a
simpler life there and enjoy a better family life.

Questions

A\)

1\. Sally and George want to buy a new home because their two children
are getting older. Why do Sally and George want to buy a new home? They
want to buy a new home because their children are getting older.

2\. They have been saving money for many years. How long have Sally and
George been saving money? They have been saving money for many years.

3\. If they want to buy a single family house, they would have to live
far from the city. What would happen if they were to buy a single family
house? They would have to live far from the city.

4\. They looked at apartments but these were either too small or in
neighbourhoods they didn’t like. Why don’t they like the apartments they
looked at? They don’t like the apartments they looked at because they
were either too small or in neighbourhoods they didn’t like

B\)

1\. We had wanted to buy a new home because our two children had grown
older. What had we wanted to do? You had wanted to buy a new home
because your two children had grown older.

2\. We had thought, at one point, of renting a home. What had we thought
about at one point? You had thought, at one point, about renting a home.

3\. We really felt we preferred to own our own home. What did we feel we
preferred to own? You felt you preferred to own your own home.

4\. Finally we decided to move to a smaller town. What did we finally
decide? You finally decided to move to a smaller town.

*56*

A\)

Margaret is marketing manager for a manufacturing company.

She is convinced that now is the best time for her company to expand
overseas

since demand is growing for her company's products in foreign markets.

Not only are exports growing, but there are excellent parts suppliers in
certain foreign countries.

Therefore expanding overseas could increase market share and reduce
costs at the same time.

Any move overseas will require careful planning.

Since conditions in each foreign country are different, she will
certainly need to find people with local expertise to help her.

Margaret has visited most of the important overseas markets.

She doesn't want to make a wrong move and therefore decides to ask her
existing overseas customers for advice.

It will take a while for her to do the necessary research to make sure
that the new expansion plan is completed successfully.

B\)

I was marketing manager for a manufacturing company, a few years ago.

I was convinced that it was time time for our company to expand overseas

since demand was growing for our company's products in foreign markets.

Not only were exports growing, but there were excellent parts suppliers
in certain foreign countries.

Therefore expanding overseas could increase market share and reduce
costs at the same time.

Any move overseas was going to require careful planning.

Since conditions in each foreign country were different, I knew that I
would need to find people with local expertise to help me.

I had visited most of the important overseas markets.

I didn’t want to make a wrong move and therefore decided to ask my
existing overseas customers for advice.

It was going to take a while for me to do the necessary research to make
sure that the new expansion plan was completed successfully.

Questions

A\)

1\. Margaret is marketing manager for a manufacturing company. What is
Margaret’s job? Margaret’s job is marketing manager for a manufacturing
company.

2\. She is convinced that now is the best time for her company to expand
overseas. What is Margaret convinced of? She is convinced that now is
the best time for her company to expand overseas.

3\. There are excellent parts suppliers in certain foreign countries.
Where are there excellent parts suppliers? There are excellent parts
suppliers in certain foreign countries.

4\. Expanding overseas could increase market share and reduce costs at
the same time. What would expanding overseas do? Expanding overseas
could increase market share and reduce costs at the same time.

B\)

1\. I knew that I would need to find people with local expertise to help
me. Who did I know I would need to find to help me? I knew that would
need to find people with local expertise.

2\. I had visited most of the important overseas markets. Had I visited
all of the important overseas markets? No, I had visited most of the
overseas markets.

3\. I decided to ask my existing overseas customers for advice. What did
I ask my existing overseas customers for? I asked them for advice.

4\. It was going to take a while for me to do the necessary research.
Was it going to take me a short time to do the necessary research. No,
it was going to take me a while to do the research.

*57*

A\)

Bill hates being stuck in traffic, especially when commuting to and from
work.

He thinks that one way to reduce traffic is to share a car with someone
else, since that would mean fewer cars on the road.

Carpooling first started a few decades ago but many people resisted it
mostly because they liked their privacy while driving.

Some people might also have been concerned about how safe it would be if
they traveled in cars driven by strangers.

In some cities, there are special carpooling lanes on the highway. Only
cars with two ,three or more people can drive in those lanes.

Carpooling can help you get to work faster, however it does require
people to change some of their habits.

Over the past few years carpooling has grown, because the traffic has
just kept on getting worse.

Carpooling can save commuters time and money, but perhaps even more
important, it is good for the environment.

B\)

I used to hate being stuck in traffic, especially when commuting to and
from work.

I thought that one way to reduce traffic was to share a car with someone
else, since that would mean fewer cars on the road.

Carpooling had first started a few decades previously but many people
had resisted it mostly because they liked their privacy while driving.

I was also bit concerned about how safe it would be if I traveled in
cars driven by strangers.

In some cities, there were already special carpooling lanes on the
highway. Only cars with two, three or more people could drive in those
lanes.

I like this trend. Carpooling helps me get to work faster, but it did
require me to change some habits.

Over the past few years carpooling has grown, because the traffic has
just kept on getting worse.

Carpooling has saved commuters, like me, time and money, but perhaps
even more important, it has been good for the environment.

Questions

A\)

1\. Bill hates being stuck in traffic, especially when commuting to and
from work. When does Bill especially hate traffic. He especially hates
traffic when commuting to and from work.

2\. He thinks that one way to reduce traffic is to share a car with
someone else. What is one way Bill thinks will reduce traffic? He thinks
that one way to reduce traffic is to share a car with someone else.

3\. Sharing a car with someone else would mean fewer cars on the road.
Would sharing a car with someone else mean more or fewer cars on the
road? Sharing a car with someone else would mean fewer cars on the road.

4\. Carpooling had first started a few decades previously. Did
carpooling start last year? No, carpooling had first started a few
decades previously.

B\)

1\. I was also bit concerned about how safe it would be if I traveled in
cars driven by strangers. How did I feel about traveling in cars driven
by strangers. I was a bit concerned about traveling in cars driven by
strangers.

2\. In some cities, there were already special carpooling lanes on the
highway. What did some cities already have? Some cities already had
special carpooling lanes on the highway.

3\. Only cars with two, three or more people could drive in those lanes.
How many people must cars that drive in those lanes have? Cars that
drive in those lanes must have two, three or more people.

4\. Over the past few years carpooling has grown, because the traffic
has just kept on getting worse. Why has carpooling grown over the past
few years? It’s grown because the traffic has just kept on getting
worse.

*58*

A\)

Sam and Betty enjoy going out for dinner with friends.

They enjoy having a glass or two of wine with their meal when they eat
out.

For that reason, it is important for them to think about how they are
going to get home after dinner.

They usually drive their car to the restaurant, or to their friends’
place, because it is too expensive to take a taxi.

They usually decide ahead of time who is going to drive home, since the
person who drives home can’t have had any wine.

Sometimes they know that it will be difficult to refuse to drink with
the other guests, for example if friends are celebrating an event like a
birthday.

In those cases, they have to make other arrangements. One solution is to
go together with other friends who live near by, one of whom will have
to agree not to drink.

It is always useful to have friends who simply do not drink at all. Such
people are always in demand as designated drivers.

The best situation of all is when the dinner party is within walking
distance. Unfortunately, that is not often the case in large cities.

B\)

We used to enjoy going out for dinner with friends when we lived in the
big city.

We enjoyed having a glass or two of wine with our meal when we ate out.

For that reason, we had to think about how we were going to get home
after dinner.

We usually drove our car to the restaurant, or to our friends’ place,
because it was too expensive to take a taxi.

We always decided ahead of time who was going to drive home, since the
person who drove home couldn’t have any wine.

Sometimes we knew that it would be difficult to refuse to drink with the
other guests, for example if friends were celebrating an event like a
birthday.

In those cases, we had to make other arrangements. One solution was to
go together with other friends who lived near by, one of whom would have
to agree not to drink.

I found it useful to have friends who didn’t drink at all. Such people
were always in demand as designated drivers.

The best situation of all was when the dinner party was within walking
distance. Unfortunately, that was not often the case in large cities. So
we moved to a small town and spend more time with our neighbours.

Questions

A\)

1\. Sam and Betty enjoy having a glass or two of wine with their meal
when they eat out. How many glasses of wine do they enjoy with their
meal when they eat out? They enjoy having a glass or two of wine with
their meal when they eat out.

2\. For that reason, it is important for them to think about how they
are going to get home after dinner. What it is it important for Sam and
Betty to think about? It’s important for them to think about how they
are going to get home after dinner.

3\. They usually drive their car to the restaurant, or to their friends’
place, because it is too expensive to take a taxi. Why don’t they take a
taxi? Because it’s too expensive to take a taxi.

4\. They usually decide ahead of time who is going to drive home. What
do they decide ahead of time? They usually decide ahead of time who is
going to drive home.

B\)

1\. Sometimes we knew that it would be difficult to refuse to drink with
the other guests. Did we think it would be easy or difficult to refuse
to drink with the other guests? We knew that it would be difficult to
refuse to drink with the other guests.

2\. In those cases, we had to make other arrangements. What did we have
to do in those cases? We had to make other arrangements in those cases.

3\. I found it useful to have friends who didn’t drink at all. What
kinds of friends did I find it useful to have? I found it useful to have
friends who didn’t drink at all.

4\. Such people were always in demand as designated drivers. What were
such people always in demand as? Such people were always in demand as
designated drivers.

*59*

A\)

Mary used to only read paper books. For most of her life the idea of an
electronic book didn’t even exist. All reading materials used to be
printed on paper.

However, now there are other ways to read. In recent years, more and
more people have started to read books on mobile devices.

People can read on their phones, their electronic tablets, or on
dedicated e-book readers like Kindle, if they want to.

Mary prefers the convenience of reading on a mobile device, because she
always has her reading material with her.

She finds e-books are especially handy when she is traveling, since
carrying books in her luggage can be inconvenient.

She is also able to order any book she wants, at a moment’s notice, via
the Internet.

Her husband George, however, prefers to hold a traditional paper book in
his hands. He simply finds it a more comfortable and agreeable reading
experience.

George also likes spending time in bookstores and libraries, just to see
that kinds of books are available.

George tends to buy books, but Mary just takes a note of the names of
interesting books, so that she can order the ebook version online and
read it on her portable device.

B\)

For many years, I only read paper books. For most of my life the idea of
an electronic book didn’t even exist. All reading materials was printed
on paper.

However, a few years ago, I discovered new ways to read. I noticed that
more and more people were starting to read books on mobile devices.

I saw people reading on their phones, their electronic tablets, or on
dedicated ebook readers like Kindle.

I must say that I now prefer the convenience of reading on a mobile
device, because I always have my reading material with me.

I have found that e-books are especially handy when traveling, since
carrying books in my luggage can be inconvenient.

What is more, I can order any book I want, at a moment’s notice, via the
Internet.

My husband George, however, prefers traditional paper books. He says
that he finds them a more comfortable and agreeable reading experience.
He is just old fashioned in my view.

George spends too much time in bookstores and libraries, just to see
that kinds of books are available.

He might buy a book in the store after browsing. However, I prefer to
just write down the names of interesting books. Then I can order the
ebook version online and read it on my portable device. Much better!

Questions

A\)

1\. For most of her life the idea of an electronic book didn’t even
exist. What idea didn’t even exist for most of her life? The idea of an
electronic book didn’t even exist for most of her life.

2\. In recent years, more and more people have started to read books on
mobile devices. When have people started to read books on mobile
devices? People have started to read books on mobile devices in recent
years.

3\. She finds ebooks are especially handy when she is traveling. When
does Mary find ebooks especially handy? She finds ebooks are especially
handy when she is traveling.

4\. She is also able to order any book she wants, at a moment’s notice,
via the Internet. What is she able to order at a moment’s notice? Mary
is able to order any book she wants at a moment’s notice.

B\)

1\. My husband George, however, prefers traditional paper books. Does
her husband George prefer ebooks or traditional paper books? He prefers
traditional paper books.

2\. George spends too much time in bookstores and libraries, just to see
what kinds of books are available. How much time does George spend in
bookstores and libraries? He spends too much time in bookstores and
libraries.

3\. He might buy a book in the store after browsing. When might George
buy a book? He might buy a book in the store after browsing.

4\. However, I prefer to just write down the names of interesting books.
What do I prefer to do in bookstores and libraries? I prefer to just
write down the names of interesting books.

*60*

A\)

I think it might rain today, because there are dark clouds in the sky

Even if it doesn’t start raining, I’d better take my umbrella with me,
since I got soaked yesterday.

Sometimes I decide not to take an umbrella. Sometimes I just forget to
take one.

I often hesitate to take an umbrella with me, when I should. This is
because I know I often leave my umbrella behind somewhere when I do take
one with me.

In any case, it seems to me that whenever I don’t take my umbrella, it
rains and I end up getting wet.

Yesterday, for example, I thought it wouldn’t rain, even though the
forecast said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.

I left the house without an umbrella, hoping for the best. But what do
you know, it rained and I got drenched.

I am just going to have to be more careful. I need to be more careful
about taking an umbrella, and more careful about remembering to bring it
back home.

Life is full of difficult decisions.

B\)

Anne thought it would rain last Monday, because there were dark clouds
in the sky

Even if it didn’t start raining, she thought she’d better take her
umbrella with her, since she had gotten soaked the previous day.

It was true that she often decided not to take an umbrella, or simply
just forgot to take one.

Furthermore, she often hesitated to take an umbrella with her, when she
should have taken one. This was because she knew that she would often
leave her umbrella behind somewhere, when she did take one with her.

In any case, it seemed to Anne that whenever she didn’t take her
umbrella, it would rain and she would end up getting wet.

The other day, for example, she had thought it wouldn’t rain, even
though the forecast had said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.

She had left the house without an umbrella, hoping for the best. But
what do you know, it had rained and she had gotten drenched.

She thought to herself that she was just going to have to be more
careful. She was going to have to be more careful about taking an
umbrella, and more careful about remembering to bring it back home.

Life is full of difficult decisions.

Questions

A\)

1\. I think it might rain today, because there are dark clouds in the
sky. Why do I think it might rain? You think it might rain because there
are dark clouds in the sky.

2\. I’d better take my umbrella with me, since I got soaked yesterday.
Why had I better take my umbrella? You should take your umbrella because
you got soaked yesterday.

3\. I often hesitate to take an umbrella with me, when I should. Am I
always sure to take an umbrella with me? No, sometimes you hesitate to
bring an umbrella with you.

4\. This is because I know I often leave my umbrella behind somewhere
when I do take one with me. What do I often do with my umbrella? You
often leave my umbrella behind somewhere when you do take one with you.

B\)

1\. In any case, it seemed to Anne that whenever she didn’t take her
umbrella, it would rain and she would end up getting wet. What would
happen to Anne when it would rain? it would rain and she would end up
getting wet.

2\. The other day, for example, she had thought it wouldn’t rain, even
though the forecast had said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.
What percent chance of rain had the forecast said there was? The
forecast had said there was a twenty percent chance of rain.

3\. She thought to herself that she was just going to have to be more
careful. What was Anne going to have to be? She was going to have to be
more careful.

4\. She was going to have to be more careful about taking an umbrella.
What was Anne going to have to be more careful about? She was going to
have to be more careful about taking an umbrella.
